The Project Gutenberg eBook of The cross word puzzle book, by Prosper
 Buranelli

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The cross word puzzle book

Authors: Prosper  Buranelli
         F. Gregory Hartswick
         Margaret  Petherbridge

Release Date: June 8, 2022 [eBook #68267]

Language: English

Produced by: Jeroen Hellingman and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net/ for Project Gutenberg (This
             file was produced from images generously made available by
             The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CROSS WORD PUZZLE
BOOK ***





                       THE CROSS WORD PUZZLE BOOK

                An Anthology of Fifty Cross Word Puzzles
                 Selected as the Best of the Thousands
                    That Have Been Submitted to the
                        New York World Published
                          Here Exclusively for
                             the First Time
                               and Edited

                                   By

                           PROSPER BURANELLI
                          F. GREGORY HARTSWICK
                         MARGARET PETHERBRIDGE


                      THE PLAZA PUBLISHING COMPANY
                            New York :: 1924









                      THE CROSS WORD PUZZLE

                         By Newman Levy


            For many years we’ve lived as man and wife,
            As happy now as on the day we wed.
            “We’re more like sweethearts,” I have always said.
            No cloud has dimmed the sunshine of our life,
            Though now and then I’ll seize a rolling pin
            And playfully I’ll clout her on the dome
            Just to preserve domestic discipline
            And demonstrate who’s master in our home.
            At times she’ll hurl with well-directed aim
            A platter or an iron at my bean.
            These slight attentions keep romances green
            And keep alive the hymeneal flame.

            On Sunday, when the evening lamp is lit
            And peace and calm contentment fill our house,
            With pipe and well-loved book at ease I sit,
            And at my side, in earnest thought, my spouse,
            Then fade the cares and troubles of the day;
            With Conrad and Lord Jim I sail the sea,
            When suddenly I hear my wife’s voice say,
            “What word for ‘female child’ begins with G?”
            “The word is ‘Girl’,” I growl. Again I try
            To catch the shattered magic of my tale.
            I find my place. Again with Jim I sail
            Upon the tropic sea. My wife says “My,
            What pronoun in three letters starts with Y?”

            Calmly I rise and search about the place
            To find a weapon of sufficient weight.
            Aha! Upon our wall an ancient mace,
            Studded with knobs of steel. The very thing.
            I seize it, and with easy, graceful swing
            Wallop my darling wife upon the pate,
            The sconce or bean, or dome, or what you will.
            Silent she tumbles headlong in the grate.
            I take my book and leisurely resume
            My tale, and peace and quiet fill the room.


                                From F.P.A.’s Conning Tower
                                            in The New York World









THE CROSS WORD PUZZLE BOOK


CONFESSIONS OF A CROSS WORD PUZZLE EDITOR


When I was first made unwilling Cross Word Puzzle Editor some two years
ago, the procedure in deciding what puzzle would be run was limited to
picking out a good-looking one from among the bunch and sending it
upstairs to be set. I saw no reason to change this splendid system. At
that time, I had never taken the trouble to do a puzzle and the letters
of anathema and condemnation that came in by the dozens had small
effect on my conscience. They were evidently from cranks and couldn’t
be avoided.

I must admit that the dawning of conscience began with the arrival of
F.P.A., who came to work in the next room. When he discovered that I
was responsible for the cross words, he formed the atrocious habit of
stalking in every Monday morning bright and early (about eleven
o’clock) to point out to me in sarcastic tones just what was wrong with
yesterday’s. Well, to make a long story short, in order to avoid the
moronish feeling that usually followed such a lecture, I decided to
reform and find out what a really decent puzzle was like.

I began by trying to do one the next Sunday, and thus experienced the
throes of acute agony that come to all solvers of puzzles on
discovering definitions left out, numbers wrong, hideously warped
definitions, words not to be found inside of any known dictionary,
foreign words—very foreign—and words that had no right to be dragged
out of their native obscurity. Then and there, with my left hand
reposing on a dictionary and my right raised in air, I took an oath to
edit the cross words to the essence of perfection. From then on, I
instituted the procedure of doing the puzzles myself on the page
proof—sort of trying it on the dog—applying the principle,


               “If it be not fair to me,
                What care I how fair it be!”


Since that momentous day, F.P.A.’s visits have grown less frequent—in
fact, he has to make up excuses to come in and converse on other
matters—and the cross words even came in for an occasional bouquet in
Sam Pepys’s diary. So now you all know whom to thank for the perfection
(more or less) of the cross word puzzle found each Sunday on the World
Magazine’s Ingenuities Page.


                                                  Margaret Petherbridge







HOW TO SOLVE THEM


Solving a cross word puzzle offers numerous enjoyments of which the
uninitiated are ignorant. There is the pure esthetic stimulation of
looking at the pattern with its neat black and white squares, like a
floor in a cathedral or a hotel bathroom; there is the challenge of the
definitions, titillating the combative ganglion that lurks in all of
us; there is the tantalizing elusiveness of the one little word that
will satisfactorily fill a space and give clues to others that we know
not of; and there is the thrill of triumph as the right word is found,
fitted, and its attendant branches and roots spring into being. No
better illustration could be used than a recent brilliant construction
of Mr. Gelett Burgess, published in the Sunday World Magazine.

Consider the solver as he faces his problem. The numbers in the
squares, he knows, refer to the definitions; in the system of numbering
used in this book, the first letters only are indicated by numbers.
Thus 1 horizontal means a word that will fill the space following the
figure up to the next black square.


    Horizontal                    +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                                  | 1   | 2   | 3   |     | 4   |#####|
    1 Lowest form of life         |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
    12 Product of coal or pine    +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
    18 Opponent                   | 12  |     |     |#####|     |
                                  |     |     |     |#####|     |
    Vertical                      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                                  | 18  |     |     | 20  |     |#####|
    1 Gustated                    |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
    2 Divine nourishment          +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
    3 Before                      |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
    4 Indefinite number           |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
                                  +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                                  | 30  |     | 32  |     | 33  |#####|
                                  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
                                  +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                                        |#####|
                                        |#####|
                                        +-----+


The solver, then, looks the puzzle over. Aha! a friend. 12 horizontal,
three letters long—“product of coal or pine.” Triumphantly the solver
writes TAR in the spaces and proceeds with this clue. 2 Vertical is
defined as “Divine Nourishment.” It links with TAR at the second
letter. A moment of thought and MANNA appears as the only possible
solution. He turns to 1 vertical, the second letter of which is the
first of 12 horizontal—T. The definition is “gustated,” and the word is
of three letters. Why hesitate? ATE goes into the space. “A cinch!”
reflects the solver, and joyously writes ENEMY in 18 horizontal,
defined as “Opponent.” 3 vertical is defined as “Before,” and with -RE
staring him in the face he would be dull indeed who did not write ERE.
And now 1 horizontal stands revealed. “Lowest form of life,” eh? AMEBA
goes down. 4 vertical is “Indefinite number.” Well, A-Y cannot be
anything but ANY—and there is the corner complete, with three clues to
the words in other sections.


                +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                | 1   | 2   | 3   |     | 4   |#####|
                |  A  |  M  |  E  |  B  |  A  |#####|
                +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                | 12  |     |     |#####|     |
                |  T  |  A  |  R  |#####|  N  |
                +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                | 18  |     |     | 20  |     |#####|
                |  E  |  E  |  E  |  M  |  Y  |#####|
                +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
                |#####|  N  |#####|     |#####|
                +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                | 30  |     | 32  |     | 33  |#####|
                |     |  A  |     |     |     |#####|
                +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                      |#####|
                      |#####|
                      +-----+


So far the sailing has been fairly easy. But trouble waits just around
the corner. There are other definitions which are not so simple as
“product of coal or pine.” In the far reaches of the puzzle to which
the above corner belongs may be found such definitions as “Vexation
(Provincial British),” “Humorous figure of speech,” “One-sided
headaches” and “Droning dung-beetles.” Is the solver prepared to state
that he can fill the spaces represented by those words without the
assistance of the linked horizontals or verticals?

It is here that one of the greatest charms of the crossword puzzle
lies: the discovery of new words by the process of building them,
though entirely ignorant of their actual spelling. Consider another
portion of Mr. Burgess’ puzzle. The construction of the provincial form
of “Vexation” and “Humorous figure of speech” fortunately come in
juxtaposition; they illustrate at once the vocabulary-building feature
of the cross word puzzle and a constructional weakness which may lead
to non-solution.

The definitions surrounding this precious pair are as follows:
Horizontal, “Series of games,” “Self,” “Means of sustenance,” and
“Surface of fibres”; Vertical, “Drinking vessel” and “Body of cavalry.”
When these words are solved one finds:


                                +-----+
                                |#####|
                                |#####|
                          +-----+-----+-----+
                          |#####|     |#####|
                          |#####|     |#####|
                    +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                    |#####|     |     |     |#####|
                    |#####|  S  |  E  |  T  |#####|
              +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
              |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
              |#####|     |  T  |  U  |  R  |     |#####|
              +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
              |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
              |     |#####|  E  |  G  |  O  |#####|     |
        +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
        |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
        |#####|  A  |  L  |  I  |  M  |  O  |  N  |  Y  |#####|
        +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                    |#####|     |     |     |#####|
                    |#####|  N  |  A  |  P  |#####|
                    +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


Now the unfortunate part of it is that the section is completed; there
are no more clues, and if one does not know what the humorous figure of
speech is and what the British provincialism is, there is no way of
discovering them aside from the use of deduction. A little thinking
will show that the first letter of the provincialism is more likely to
be “S” than any other letter, and a short search in the dictionary will
give “Sturm” as the answer; while as for -EUGMA, a brief running
through the alphabet will so limit the possibilities that a very short
search will reveal ZEUGMA as correct.

It is extremely difficult, in the construction of cross word puzzles,
to avoid the use of such “unkeyed” letters, and effort has been used to
ensure the presence of common words where more than one letter is
unkeyed; but the exigencies of construction will not always allow this.
Nor should it always be done; allowance must be made for erudition on
the part of the solver. When such a construction appears as S-ALE-E,
defined as “Unequal sided and angled” and with all clues exhausted, it
is with a warm sensation of culture that one triumphantly fills the
blanks with “C” and “N.” And the same thrill is present when “One-sided
headaches,” standing clueless with M-GRI-S, is properly filled in to
become MEGRIMS.

Thus is the solution achieved; in part by the science of deduction, in
part by mother-wit, in part by erudition; appeals to as many as
possible of the lobes of the brain. There is no nobler satisfaction
than the fitting in of the last word that makes the pattern complete;
one rises to lyric heights in the contemplation of the evolution of
such a word as one enthusiastic constructor included in his design, the
definition of which was “Parallel pairs of simulacra in echinoideans.”
The cross-constructions showed BIVIA as the necessary filler and the
vocabularies of the solvers were enriched by an addition of high
esthetic value and utter incomprehensibility, to be used as occasion
demands.

The cross word solver becomes a collector, a connoisseur of words. They
lose, to him, their mundane purpose of a suitable medium for the
exchange of thoughts, and take on an esoteric significance, akin to the
appeal of slip-ware to the collector of pottery or the three-cornered
Mauritius to the philatelist. He and Hamlet are one. “Words, words,
words”—except that he has the advantage of the melancholy one. Hamlet’s
words ran in decorous file, one after the other; the solver’s twine and
intertwine, each leading to others, resulting in a harmonious whole
unapproached by any except the masterpieces of classic literature.



It is generally conceded that as a form of amusement, cross words are
very instructive, and that as a form of instruction, they are very
amusing. The first thing that strikes the eye is the pattern in which
the words are intermingled. Our experience teaches that an all-over
interlock is an absolute necessity, and except in a few cases you will
find that the puzzles in this book possess this quality. The advantages
are obvious; when all the words interlock, you can check up the
horizontal by the vertical, and vice versa.

Occasional stunt patterns are interesting, but as a general thing they
are apt to detract from the value of a puzzle as a thing to be solved.

The numbering system used to be quite intricate and took up a lot of
precious space. It required two numbers to each definition. On July 22,
1923, at the suggestion of an ardent puzzler who calls himself
“Radical,” we offered the new system of numbering, which calls for only
one number to a definition. It is quite simple to read either
horizontally or vertically from one number, and forms a decided
improvement over the old style. “Radical” deserves a special vote of
thanks. All the puzzles in this book use the new system of numbering.

As for the words that find their way into cross words, strange as it
may seem with the whole of the dictionary to choose from, the same old
favorites have a way of recurring ceaselessly. Of course, all the two
letter words are overworked, and many have to compromise on
abbreviations. Our sole objection to abbreviations is that they cannot
be defined without practically telling what they are. Parts of the verb
“to be”; prepositions; the Egyptian Sun God, Ra; Pi, em, ma, pa, i.e.,
e.g., so, to, go, do, are to be found in almost every cross word
puzzle, and the solver gets heartily tired of them. So the better
patterns avoid these two word spaces. The three letters words contain
some old favorites, too. Eel, emu and gnu are among the most popular.
It seems that almost nine-tenths of the puzzles we look at have a
“snake-like fish” wriggling in them somewhere. And who hasn’t found
err, sin, and erg; cam, moa, tar; pal, ode, née, ace, e’er, o’er, sac;
lee and lea; ape and pea; ego, ago and age; era and eon; Eli and spa;
and all the notes of the scale from do to do. Truly, all these words
are to the puzzler as buttons are to a shirt.

Among the longer words, the rule seems to hold that words with
alternating consonants and vowels can be used more frequently than
others. It is evident that a word containing three consecutive
consonants, for instance, may have to take, in the word just below it,
three consecutive vowels—and who hasn’t heard the cross-word
constructor asking plaintively for a seven-letter word beginning with
e-a-o and ending with u? Among the much-used words, you’ll surely find
opera, onus, tenor, estop, used, ameer, renal, depot, emit, cabal,
item, sere, lunar, nacre, neve, apse and the rest.


                                                   F. Gregory Hartswick









THE SCIENCE AND LORE OF CROSS WORD PUZZLES


Everyone knows the classic Riddle of the Sphinx: what is it that walks
on four legs in the morning, on two at noon and on three in the
evening? the answer being man, who goes on hands and knees in infancy,
with bipedal locomotion in after years, and in old age with a cane.

The posing of such riddles was an important affair with ancient
peoples. It was a tradition of the archaic Scandinavians, among whom it
shows clear literary relations. Thus, the riddle—what is the name of
the horse that flies with upright wings across the sea, the answer
being ship—becomes the metaphor, of a type common in the Sagas—the
upright-winged horse of the sea.

Old forms of writing take on puzzle forms. In the Maya hieroglyphics of
Central America is found an element similar to the mechanism of the
rebus. It is as though the symbol meaning “hair” in juxtaposition with
the one meaning “ring,” might mean “hair and ring” or it might mean
herring. This makes the decipherment of the Maya writing so very
difficult for modern scholars. The old fashioned charade has rebus-like
elements. Cryptography, of course, must have begun in the earliest
times when a literate man had a secret message to convey. The most
recondite systems of hidden writing have been devised both for
practical use and literary fantasy, remembering only Poe’s ingenious
speculations. Much of the “Baconian Theory” has revolved around
supposed cryptography in Shakespeare.

Ancient and medieval folk were much given to anagrams; that is, to
phrases of related meanings and made up of the same letters—as the
masterpiece, “They see,” answer “The eyes,” or “Honor est a Nilo,”
answer “Horatio Nelson.” Into theological controversy came such
damnations as this: The Calvinistic opponents of Jacobus Arminius
rearranged the letters of his name to spell, “vani orbis
amicus,”—“friend of the false world.”

A recent “Baconian” argument based itself on an anagrammatical
treatment of the long dedication of the sonnets. The author rearranged
the letters of the dedication to form a statement that it was Lord
Bacon who had written the verse. An experienced puzzler might object
that he could rearrange the numerous letters to spell out a statement
of almost anything, that he would rearrange the letters that make up
Aristotle’s Poetics into a treatise proving that when the Democrats are
in office hard times come. Similar to the anagram in principle is the
transposition, in which you fill blanks in a text with words that are
made up of the same letters; for instance, angered, enraged, derange.

Of ancient glory, too, is the palindrome, which is properly not a
puzzle at all, but an ingenuity. A palindrome reads the same backward
and forward, as in the familiar “Madam, I’m Adam,” and “Able was I ere
I saw Elba.” Perhaps the most charming of antique palindromes is the
Roman legal maxim, “Si nummi immunis,”—“if you pay you go free.”

But perhaps the most fascinating of all word puzzles are the types in
which words are to be guessed from definitions. There is the well-known
acrostic, where with definitions as clues you arrive at a set of words
of which the initial letters, or finals or second letters or third, as
may have been determined, will spell another or other words. During the
struggle for Italian freedom an acrostic was seen in the shibboleth,
Vittorio Emmanuele Re D’Italia, giving the name of the composer, Verdi.
Most august of all is the fish symbol for Christ, which was held in
much mystic veneration in the early Christian centuries. The Greek word
for fish, Ichthys (Ιχθυς) was seen to be composed of the first letters
of the sacred phrase, Iesous Christos Theou Huios Soter (Ἰησοῦς Χριστὸς
Θεοῦ Υἱὸς Σῷτήρ), meaning “Jesus Christ, Son of God, Savior.”

It is the feature of determining words from definitions that has made
“word forms” the most popular genus of puzzle. A word form is a set of
words arranged one under the other so that their letters may be read
across and down to give sensible readings, sometimes the same readings
across and down and sometimes different readings. They may be of many
geometric configurations, as square, pyramid, octagon, etc. Their
origin is lost in the mists of time.

Word forms, especially squares, have a considerable following of very
skillful adepts, most of them members of the National Puzzlers’ League,
who construct and solve them with the same sort of devotion that a
chess player demonstrates toward chess. Among such the forms take the
most learned guise and consist of the most unusual sort of words. With
the adepts any word that has ever been printed in an English book is
allowable, and thus there is a great selection of exotic words in
various spellings from old gazetteers, books of travel, etc. The adept
delights in words that no one has ever heard of before. Here are
several examples of recondite ingenuities.


                       By Mentor, in The Enigma

                   M   A   L   E   G   A   G   E   S
                   A   D   E   N   O   C   E   L   E
                   L   E   U   C   A   E   M   I   C
                   E   N   C   O   R   T   I   N   E
                   G   O   A   R   L   I   N   G   S
                   A   C   E   T   I   F   I   E   S
                   G   E   M   I   N   I   A   N   I
                   E   L   I   N   G   E   N   I   O
                   S   E   C   E   S   S   I   O   N


                        By Gemini, in The Enigma

                                   V
                               R   E   S
                           I   O   N   S
                       I   N   S   E   R   T   S
                   R   O   S   E   T   R   E   E   S
               V   E   N   E   T   I   A   N   R   E   D
                   S   E   R   R   A   T   I   O   N
                       S   T   E   N   I   O   N
                           S   E   R   O   N
                               S   E   N
                                   D


          By Neophyte, in the Sunday Magazine, New York World

                 Z   I   K   R           H   O   O   D
                 I   X   I   A           O   L   L   A
                 K   I   W   I           O   L   I   D
                 R   A   I   D   Y   A   D   A   D   O
                             Y   U   G   A
                             A   G   N   I
                 L   E   W   D   A   I   S   U   S   U
                 E   R   I   A           U   N   I   T
                 W   I   L   L           S   I   V   A
                 D   A   L   I           U   T   A   S


                   By Alec Sander, in The Enigma

                                   T
                               C   A   L
                           K   A   R   A   T
                       R   A   S   E   T   E   S
                   B   A   L   A   N   I   S   M   S
               C   O   M   M   U   T   A   T   I   N   G
           C   O   N   T   A   B   U   L   A   T   I   O   N
       G   A   S   T   E   R   O   L   I   C   H   E   N   E   S
   P   E   N   T   A   G   O   N   A   S   T   E   R   I   D   A   E


The great public following goes to the Cross Word Puzzle, which is an
expanded word form in which, commonly, only dictionary words are
allowed. It is this simplicity of words, together with its larger and
more elaborate construction, that makes it irresistible to the casual
puzzler. A cross word square, or other geometric figure, is a logical
modern development of the ancient word square. The insertion of black
spaces permits it to be made of any size and gives an interesting
variety of inner construction.

The cross word puzzle began its career only a few decades back. It was
run for many years in the Sunday Magazine of the New York World and has
held a considerable and steady group of followers. Recently it has come
into a sudden great vogue and is being printed by many newspapers and
magazines throughout the country. Cross word puzzles are now published
for the first time in book form.


                                                      Prosper Buranelli









DO’S AND DON’T’S FOR SOLVERS


Don’t get scared if you can’t guess the first horizontal word. Go
through the list till you find a definition that you’re sure of. That
is the simplest method of beginning the solution. When you have written
in all the words you are sure of you will have plenty of clues for the
unknowns.

Don’t spend too much time with the long words unless you are sure of
them. They will appear when the short ones have been solved. Of course,
not all the short ones are easy, but they are generally more readily
attended to than the long ones. Also, there are more of them,
increasing the chances of finding familiar faces among the definitions.

If you think a word is right, pencil it in lightly till you are sure.
This saves erosion of paper and temper. But never hesitate to try a
word that may be right. The trial and error method holds in puzzling as
it does in life.

Remember that the horizontals furnish a sure check on the verticals,
and vice versa.

If you are hopelessly stuck, try another puzzle. Inspiration sometimes
waits for a return engagement.

A pleasant feeling of something attempted, something done accompanies
the solution of a cross word puzzle. It’s good for the inferiority
complex.









PUZZLE NO. 1

A SOFT BEGINNING

By Gregorian


The two long central words, if solved at once, will give sufficient
clues to permit of rapid solution. But should these prove elusive,
surely such definitions as 9 horizontal and 29 vertical offer no
difficulties. Three-letter words meaning respectively “aged” and
“sorrowful” should hold few terrors for the beginner.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   |#####| 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   |     |#####| 7   | 8   |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 9   |     | 10  |#####| 11  |     |     |#####| 12  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 13  |     | 14  |#####|     |#####| 15  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 16  |#####| 17  |     | 18  |     | 19  |     |     |#####| 20  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  | 22  |#####| 23  |     |     |     |     |#####| 24  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 25  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 26  |     |#####| 27  |     |     |     |     |#####| 28  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 29  |     |     |     |     |     | 30  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 31  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 32  |     | 33  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     |     |#####| 35  |     | 36  |#####| 37  |     | 38  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 39  |     |#####| 40  |     |     |     |     |#####| 41  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Pronoun
 3 Albumin from castor-oil bean
 7 Exist
 9 Aged
11 Negative
12 Incite, hasten
13 Remote
15 Obstruction
17 Bivalves
21 Father
23 Tree
24 River in Italy
25 Owners
26 Printer’s measure
27 Tree
28 Personal pronoun
29 Legislative bodies
31 Compact mass
32 Moved rapidly
34 Walk about
35 Toss
37 Small child
39 Upon
40 Small openings
41 Act


VERTICAL

 1 Exclamation
 2 Fairy
 4 Preposition
 5 Plotter
 6 Pronoun
 7 Express generally
 8 Pronoun
10 Obstruct
12 Owns
14 Disarranged
15 Voluble talkativeness
16 Above
18 The bow of Vishnu
19 Choose
20 Assumed an attitude
22 Limb
24 Peer
29 Sorrowful
30 Rested
31 Pale
33 Incline the head
34 Move
35 Behold
36 Exist
38 Preposition









PUZZLE NO. 2

TRY AND DO IT

By W. W. Foster


This enigma comes from New London, where they specialize in regattas,
which is the one unusual word omitted from Mr. Foster’s contraption.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   |     | 10  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 11  |     |     |     |#####| 12  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  | 14  |#####| 15  |     |     | 16  |     |     |     |#####| 17  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 18  |     | 19  |#####| 20  |     |     |     |     |#####| 21  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 22  |     |     | 23  |#####| 24  |     |     |#####| 25  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 26  |     |     |     | 27  |     |#####| 28  | 29  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 30  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 31  |     |     |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 32  | 33  |     |     |     | 34  |#####| 35  |     |     |     | 36  | 37  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 38  |     |     |     |#####| 39  | 40  |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 42  |     |     |#####| 43  |     |     |     | 44  |#####| 45  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 46  |     |#####| 47  |     |     |     |     |     | 48  |#####| 49  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 50  |     |     |     |#####| 51  |     |     | 52  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 53  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 54  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Choose
 6 Pores
11 Herb used in soup
12 Rent
13 Egyptian god
15 Serious
17 Either, else
18 Colloquial Irish exclamation
20 Coffins
21 Fifty-six
22 Pertaining to the mouth
24 Bog
25 Viewed
26 Oriental dish of meat and rice
28 Egyptian goddess
30 Unclose
31 As you say
32 Machine
35 They go off or out
38 Digits
39 Supply with strength
41 Arguments in favor of
42 Barbarian
43 Nunnery
45 Sooner than
46 Within
47 Wise sayings
49 By
50 The dye indigo
51 Quietude
53 Scoundrel, pest
54 Seek laboriously or blindly


VERTICAL

 1 Harsh sound
 2 Behold
 3 Likewise, also
 4 Sour
 5 Duty
 6 After ends
 7 Agitate
 8 A worthless leaving
 9 Personal pronoun
10 Reed-pipe
14 Town in Italy
16 Born
17 Used for baking
19 Chemical group
21 Spare time
23 Stone
25 Domestic animal
27 Bog
29 Sacred vessel
32 Moral science
33 Part of speech
34 Preserve
35 Administered extreme unction to
36 Character in Ibsen play
37 Bloodsucking fly
40 Primer
43 Covering of a seed
44 Period of time
47 Unit
48 Point of compass
50 Exclamation
52 Editor (abbr.)









PUZZLE NO. 3

A SIMPLICITY

By Isidore Edelstein


Some abbreviations may be treated as words, such as “i.e.,” “A.D.,”
points of the compass and so on. It is not the purest usage, but may be
passed to get over a difficult spot. This construction has an
abbreviation or two beyond these, but it is a simple, easy design for a
not too energetic moment.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |     |#####| 5   | 6   | 7   |#####| 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  |     |     |     |#####| 14  |     |     |     | 15  |#####| 16  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 19  |     |#####| 20  |     | 21  |     |     |#####| 22  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 23  | 24  |     |     | 25  |#####| 26  |     |     |#####| 27  |     |     | 28  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 29  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 30  |     |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  |     | 32  |     |     |#####| 33  |     | 34  |#####| 35  |     | 36  |     | 37  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 38  |     |     |#####| 39  |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 42  |     |     | 43  |     |#####| 44  | 45  |     |#####| 46  | 47  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 48  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 49  |     |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 50  |     | 51  |     |     |#####| 52  |     | 53  |#####| 54  |     | 55  |     | 56  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 57  |     |#####| 58  |     |     |     | 59  |#####| 60  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 61  | 62  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 63  |     |     |     |     | 64  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  |     |     |     |#####| 66  |     | 67  |     |     |#####| 68  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 69  |     |     |     |     |#####| 70  |     |     |#####| 71  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Banquet
 5 Lout
 8 Willow for making baskets
13 Formerly
14 Domesticated
16 Genus of African plant
17 Lockjaw
18 Flowing
19 For example
20 Ethiopian
22 French for “of the”
23 Funeral hymn
26 Chinese sauce
27 Asiatic animal
29 Large Australian bird
30 Sick
31 Musical drama
33 An enclosure
35 Questioner
38 Bird
39 And not
40 A vase
41 Congealed water
42 An injection
44 There
46 Class
48 And so forth
49 Fen
50 Level
52 Short for a physician
54 Thick cords
57 Baby’s first word
58 Order
60 Initials of the Rough Rider
61 Obscurity
63 Leaves
65 Impel
66 Consumed
68 Stupefy with a blow
69 Prophets
70 Back (French)
71 To correct


VERTICAL

 1 Noisome
 2 Before
 3 A flower
 4 Reel
 5 Fertile spot in desert
 6 Part of “to be”
 7 Broad boat
 9 Foot coverings
10 Troy
11 An eternity
12 Royal
14 Fermenting vat
15 Two
21 Blood
24 To enroll as for jury duty
25 To flow forth
27 Clamor
28 Accomplish
31 Lyric poem
32 Female sheep
33 To scrutinize
34 Woman living in a convent
36 Relation
37 Things
43 Threatener
45 Aroma
47 Self conceit
50 Religious
51 Proverb
52 Nymph
53 Eating places
55 To gibber
56 To squander
58 Devoured
59 In the distance
62 Before, prefix
64 Weapon
67 Towards









PUZZLE NO. 4

TETRACRUCIFORM

By Charles W. Snizek


A mystical design combined with everyday words shorter than the name it
it bears.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |     |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 11  |#####| 12  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 13  |     |     |     |#####| 14  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  | 16  |#####| 17  |     |     | 18  |#####| 19  |     |     |     |#####| 20  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     | 22  |#####| 23  |     |     |#####| 24  |     |     |#####| 25  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 26  |     |     | 27  |#####| 28  |     |#####| 29  |     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  |     |     |     | 32  |#####| 33  | 34  |     |#####| 35  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 36  |     |     | 37  |#####|     |#####| 38  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####| 39  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |#####| 41  | 42  | 43  |     |#####|     |#####| 44  | 45  | 46  | 47  |#####| 48  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 49  | 50  |     |     |     |#####| 51  |     | 52  |#####| 53  |     |     | 54  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 55  |     |     |     |#####| 56  |     |#####| 57  | 58  |#####| 59  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 60  |     |     |#####| 61  |     |     |#####| 62  |     | 63  |#####| 64  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  |     |#####| 66  |     |     |     |#####| 67  |     |     | 68  |#####| 69  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 70  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 71  |     |     | 72  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 73  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 74  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Unsteady
 6 Appoint
12 Remotely
13 Besides
15 Upon
17 Worry
19 Bang
20 Fourth tone of musical scale
21 A bark or yelp
23 Pooh!
24 Climbing plant
25 Purpose
26 Poisonous sap of Malaysian trees
28 Toward
29 Perform
30 Hireling or serf
31 A drink made of wine, water, and lemon-juice, sweetened
33 Employ
35 Made of oak
36 Black
38 Practical application of knowledge (plural)
39 Without life
41 Temporary quarters
44 Gain
49 Foolish
51 Priest’s vestment
53 Heaths (Scot.)
55 Faithful
56 Either
57 Advertisement (abbreviation)
59 Province of Greece
60 A small deer
61 Energy
62 Bony rod attached to the spine
64 A bird
65 One, or any
66 Ornamental plant
67 Used to allure a fish
69 Unit of printer’s measure
70 Poison
71 To invade suddenly
73 Desist
74 Medicinal herb


VERTICAL

 2 God of midday sun
 3 Aside from a main track
 4 Complete dress
 5 Vast
 7 Proviso
 8 Put to death
 9 Doctrine or system
10 Depart
11 A large serpent of America
14 Mourn
16 Back of the neck
18 Familiar pronoun
19 Lateral
20 Elegant
22 Male servant
25 Inquires
27 Total
30 Consume
32 Therefore
34 Shallow
35 Else
37 Surface of fibres
38 Consumed
40 Pertaining to stars
41 Guide
42 Beverage
43 Possessive pronoun
45 Part of “be”
46 Grieve
47 African river
48 Take
50 Common metal
51 Host
52 Sharp point
54 Element of poetry
56 Anointed
58 Record of daily events
61 Slender plant
63 Prejudice
66 Resinous substance
68 It is
70 Happen
72 Execute









PUZZLE NO. 5

WELL BALANCED

By Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Waller


This is a nice study in words of medium length, as was dictated by the
two-ply “X” construction. The solver will observe that the central
interlock is of the good, familiar “L” joint sort.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####| 5   | 6   | 7   |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 8   |#####| 9   |     |     | 10  |#####|#####|#####| 11  |     |     |     |#####| 12  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  | 14  |#####| 15  |     |     | 16  |#####| 17  |     |     |     |#####| 18  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 19  |     | 20  |#####| 21  |     |     | 22  |     |     |     |#####| 23  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 24  |     |     | 25  |#####| 26  |     |     |     |     |#####| 27  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 28  |     |     | 29  |#####| 30  |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 32  |     |     | 33  |     |#####| 34  | 35  |     |     |     |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####| 36  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 37  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 38  |     |     |     | 39  |#####| 40  |     |     |     | 41  |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 42  |     |     |     |#####| 43  | 44  |     |#####| 45  |     |     | 46  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |     |     |     |#####| 48  |     |     |     | 49  |#####| 50  |     |     | 51  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 52  |     |     |#####| 53  |     |     |     |     |     | 54  |#####| 55  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  |     |#####| 57  |     |     |     |#####| 58  |     |     | 59  |#####| 60  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 61  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 62  |     |     | 63  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 64  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####| 65  |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Tumult
 5 Part of harness
 9 Thin metal strip
11 Seldom
13 Preposition
15 Small drink
17 Expression
18 Behold
19 Salt (chem.)
21 Proposition to be proved
23 Fabulous bird
24 Sustain
26 Not of the city
27 Spanish dry wine
28 Burlesque
30 Work with thin steel instrument
31 Engrave
32 Old-womanish
34 Miner’s hand-cart
36 Birth
37 Gone
38 Song
40 Organ pipes
42 Small hollows
43 Organ of sight
45 The other
47 Recent
48 Drudge
50 Pertaining to the Celts
52 Time
53 Pertaining to earth disturbances
55 Parent
56 Pronoun
57 A luminary
58 Dull
60 Concerning
61 Ire
62 Issue
64 Large book
65 Indivisible particle of matter


VERTICAL

 2 Part of “to be”
 3 Long practiced
 4 Keen
 5 Injury
 6 Bodily member
 7 Pronoun
 8 File
10 Wild goat
11 Dance
12 Counterfeit
14 Sailors
16 World war battle
17 Net
18 Body of water (Scotch)
20 Division of Hindu philosophy
22 Metal as mined
23 Piquant
25 Feather-shaped
27 First of two stanzas
29 Rows
31 Fungus
33 Constellation
35 Cereal
38 Quote
39 American Pioneer
40 Scars
41 Carnelian
42 Sheet, usually paper
44 Opposed to No
46 Sovereign
47 Oil-burning vessel
48 Slave
49 Door of Masonic Lodge
51 Paradise
53 Sound
54 Insensibility
57 Silent
59 Humor
61 Stop
63 Preposition









PUZZLE NO. 6

BABY GRAND MODEL

By Helen V. Christ


Only two long words. This should be pie for the hard-boiled solvers and
a pleasant exercise for the beginner.

+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   |#####| 4   |#####| 5   | 6   |     | 7   |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 8   |     | 9   |     | 10  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 11  | 12  |#####| 13  |     |     |     |     |#####| 14  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  |     | 16  |#####| 17  |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 19  |     | 20  |#####|     |#####| 21  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 22  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 23  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 24  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 25  |     |     |#####| 26  |     | 27  |#####| 28  |     | 29  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 30  |     |#####| 31  |     |     |     | 32  |#####| 33  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 34  |     |     |     |     |     | 35  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 36  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 37  |     |     |#####|
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 To praise
 5 A storm
 8 Part of mouth (Pl.)
11 A conjunction
13 Coarse material
14 Regarding
15 Pin
17 The exertion of power
18 To spread loosely for drying, as newly mown grass
19 To gain
21 The young of various carnivora
22 Put through evolutions; intrigued
23 A ram or male sheep
24 Girl’s name
25 Possessive pronoun
26 A spasm
28 A pen for swine
30 The sixth tone of the diatonic scale
31 Cardium
33 To such a degree
34 Rabbits
36 Fatty tissues
37 Bird


VERTICAL

 1 Closed curve
 2 Above
 3 Papa
 4 Inhabitants of a north-east division of China
 5 Precious stone
 6 So
 7 Increased till barely sufficient
 9 A grassy field
10 One of various small birds
12 A boat race, or a series of such races
14 Experiences sorrow for sin
16 A group or class embracing subordinate classes or species
18 Becomes sour, or spoiled, as milk; takes a new direction
20 That which is first or highest in rank or degree
21 Vegetable
25 Ailments; worries
26 Swamp
27 Prefix; three; three times; thrice
29 To bring into bondage; enslave
31 Mean dwelling
32 To spread loosely for drying
34 To have existence
35 Provided that; on condition that









PUZZLE NO. 7

A FOUR PETALED ROSE

By M. Francis Cavallon, Jr.


Mostly short words, and not difficult. Good corner masses. Mr. Cavallon
is probably our youngest contributor, boasting as he does only fourteen
summers.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   |#####| 4   |     | 5   |     | 6   |#####| 7   | 8   |     | 9   |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 10  |     | 11  |     |#####|     |#####| 12  | 13  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  | 15  |     |     |     |#####| 16  |     | 17  |#####| 18  |     |     | 19  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  |     |     |     |#####| 21  |     |     |     |     |#####| 22  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 23  |     |     | 24  |#####| 25  |     |     |#####| 26  |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  |     |     |#####| 28  | 29  |     |#####| 30  | 31  |     |#####| 32  |     | 33  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     |#####| 35  |#####| 36  |     | 37  |     |     |#####| 38  |#####| 39  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 40  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 42  | 43  |#####|     |#####| 44  | 45  |     | 46  |     |#####|     |#####| 47  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 48  |     | 49  |#####| 50  |     |     |#####| 51  |     | 52  |#####| 53  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 54  |     | 55  |     |#####| 56  | 57  |     |#####| 58  | 59  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 60  |     |     |     |#####| 61  |     |     |     |     |#####| 62  |     |     | 63  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 64  |     |     |     | 65  |#####| 66  |     |     |#####| 67  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 68  |     |     | 69  |#####|     |#####| 70  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 71  |     |     |     |#####| 72  |     |     |     |     |#####| 73  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Turkish coin
 4 Country in Asia
 7 Number
10 Black
12 Possessive pronoun
14 Cereal plant
16 Equality
18 Tears
20 Resinous substances
21 Wearied
22 Bird
23 South American bird
25 Optic
26 Italian province, famous for wine
27 Trouble
28 Thus
30 Front of an army
32 Sensory organ
34 Pronoun
36 Rhythm
39 Behold
40 Greek letter
41 Coarse file
42 Not at all
44 Small tropical tree
47 Note of musical scale
48 Quadruped
50 Enclosure
51 Biblical character
53 Number
54 Diseases
56 To immerse
58 Blow
60 Pipe
61 Be deserving of
62 Thing
64 Poker term
66 To clear
67 Extreme
68 God of love
70 Precious stone
71 Her own
72 Different
73 Unit of living organism


VERTICAL

 1 Bar which falls into the teeth of a ratchet-wheel
 2 To reverberate
 3 To humble
 4 Preposition
 5 Record
 6 Yes
 7 Combustibles
 8 Richly embellished
 9 Chance
11 Old Testament
13 Conjunction
15 Bold
16 Fragment
17 Female of the ruff
19 Test
24 Because
26 Article
27 Mingled with
29 Picture drawn by fancy
31 Hangings in woven figures
33 An ancient imperial people
35 Marsh
37 Beverage
38 Large tree of the olive family
43 Much used as an article of food
45 Prefix denoting insufficiency
46 Dead, spiritless
47 Possessing a cutaneous disease
49 Article of apparel
50 Postscript
52 Adverb
53 Reveal a secret
55 Looks meaningly
57 Native of European country
59 Delightfully scented shrub
60 Owneth
63 Calcareous earth used as fertilizer
65 Thus
67 Erect
69 Such being the case
70 An alternative









PUZZLE NO. 8

A SPOTTED BORDER

By E. Pinkerton


This puzzle possesses the merit of an interesting double central
interlock. Good interlock, be it observed, is the soul of cross word
puzzling.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   |#####| 4   | 5   |     | 6   |#####| 7   |     | 8   |     |#####| 9   | 10  |     | 11  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 12  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 13  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 14  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  | 16  |     |     |#####| 17  |     |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |#####| 19  |     | 20  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     |     |     | 22  |#####|     |#####| 23  | 24  |     |#####|     |#####| 25  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 26  |     | 27  |#####| 28  |     |     |     | 29  |#####| 30  |     |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  |#####| 32  |#####| 33  |     | 34  |     |     |#####| 35  |     | 36  |     |     |#####| 37  |#####| 38  |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 39  |     |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 41  |     |     |#####| 42  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 43  |     |     |     | 44  |#####| 45  |     |     |     | 46  |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  | 48  |     | 49  |     |     |#####| 50  |     | 51  |     |     |#####| 52  |     | 53  |     | 54  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 55  |     |#####|#####|#####| 56  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 57  |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 58  |     | 59  |     |     | 60  |#####| 61  |     |     |     | 62  |#####| 63  |     |     | 64  |     | 65  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 66  |     | 67  |     |     |#####| 68  |     | 69  |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 70  |     |     |     |#####| 71  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 72  |     |     |#####| 73  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 74  |     |     |     | 75  |#####| 76  |     |     |     | 77  |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 78  |#####| 79  |     |     |#####| 80  |     | 81  |     |     |#####| 82  |     | 83  |#####| 84  |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 85  |     | 86  |     |     |#####| 87  |#####| 88  |     |     |#####| 89  |#####| 90  |     | 91  |     | 92  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 93  |     |     |     |#####| 94  |     |     |     |#####| 95  |     |     |     |#####| 96  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 97  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 98  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 99  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 100 |     |     |     |#####| 101 |     |     |     |#####| 102 |     |     |     |#####| 103 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Church dignitary
 4 Trouble
 7 Part of church
 9 Irritate
12 Primary color
13 Sister
14 Energy
15 Falsehoods
17 Growth on the head
18 Clotted blood
19 Move by bounds
21 Excite
23 Make ill
25 Dry stretches of land
26 A collection
28 Seizes with the teeth
30 Beam of light
33 Written slander
35 A base (math.)
39 Noting grief
40 Law profession
41 Witty saying
42 Natty
43 Small depressions
45 Lavished fondness
47 Church holiday
50 Animal’s dens
52 Obsolete reed instruments
55 Upon
56 Ripple against
57 Else
58 Unorthodoxy
61 Regions
63 Changes
66 Intent
68 Domestic animal
70 Strip of wood
71 A rodent
72 Inflamed
73 Part of a clarinet
74 Lazy person
76 Is dull
79 Call for assistance
80 Variety of flower (Pl.)
82 Set free
85 That girl from Troy
88 Abraham’s nephew
90 Pertaining to N. Pole
93 A precious stone
94 Breathing organ of fish
95 Sour
96 Recently deceased
97 Same
98 Unit of measure
99 Fabulous bird
100 Part of the head (Pl.)
101 Variety of fruit
102 Weaver’s reed
103 Periodical payment


VERTICAL

 1 Give out
 2 Open space
 3 Cozy residence (Pl.)
 5 Desert-dweller
 6 To enclose
 7 Fisherman
 8 Variety of carnelian
 9 Fresh set of horses
10 Generous
11 Borders of the mouth
16 Not well
20 Trouble
22 An elongated fish
24 Pronoun
25 Slate-cutters’ hammer
27 Italian river
28 A bunk
29 Island in Aegean Sea
30 Religious acts
31 Yawn
32 A planet
34 To bar
36 Small point
37 Oriental vessel
38 Frozen confections
43 Stupid
44 Pertaining to the sun
45 Profoundness
46 Wild dog
48 A mimic
49 Part of the foot
51 Etruscan god
53 Dexterity
54 To damage
58 Aid
59 A price
60 Unit of length (Pl.)
61 One of the twelve apostles
62 Performances alone
63 Variety of flower
64 Revise
65 Mentally sound
67 Girl
69 Saw lengthwise
74 Product of electrical decomposition.
75 Cylindrical device
76 Elementary substances
77 Absorb slowly
78 Corded fabric
79 Vends
81 In this manner
83 Anguish
84 Obese
85 Fine whetstone
86 Den
87 Small quantity
89 Bird of prey
91 Ornamental fabric
92 Cessation from motion









PUZZLE NO. 9

A CHECKERED CAREER

By S. Czurles


Odd words and even. But good practice for the tough ones coming later
on.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   |     |#####| 5   | 6   | 7   |#####| 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 12  |#####|#####| 13  |     |     |#####| 14  |     |     |     | 15  |#####| 16  |     |     |#####|#####| 17  |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 18  |     |     |#####| 19  |     |     |#####| 20  |     | 21  |#####| 22  |#####| 23  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 24  | 25  |     |     |#####| 26  |     |     |     |#####| 27  |     |     | 28  |#####| 29  |     | 30  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  |     |     |#####| 32  |     |     |#####| 33  | 34  |     |#####| 35  |     | 36  |#####| 37  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 38  |     |     | 39  |     |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     | 42  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 43  |     |     |#####| 44  |#####|     |#####| 45  |#####| 46  |     |     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 47  | 48  |     |     |#####| 49  |     | 50  |     | 51  |     | 52  |#####| 53  |     | 54  | 55  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  |     |     |     |#####| 57  |     |     |     |#####| 58  |     |     | 59  |#####| 60  |     |     | 61  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 62  |     |#####|#####| 63  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 64  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 65  |     |
|     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 66  |     | 67  | 68  |#####| 69  |     |     | 70  |#####| 71  |     |     |     |#####| 72  | 73  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 74  |     |     | 75  |#####| 76  |     |     | 77  |     |     |     |#####| 78  |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 79  |#####|#####| 80  |     | 81  |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 82  |     |     |#####|#####| 83  |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 84  | 85  | 86  |     |     |     | 87  |#####| 88  |     | 89  |#####| 90  |     |     |     | 91  | 92  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 93  |     |     |#####| 94  |     |     |#####| 95  |     |     |#####| 96  |     |     |#####| 97  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 98  |     |     | 99  |#####| 100 |     | 101 |     |#####| 102 | 103 |     |     |#####| 104 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 105 |     | 106 |#####| 107 |     |     |#####| 108 |     |     |#####| 109 |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 110 |     | 111 |#####| 112 |     | 113 |     |     |#####| 114 |     |     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 115 |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 116 |     |     |#####| 117 |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Instrument of defense
 5 Morsel
 8 African animal
13 Metal
14 Pertaining to tone
16 Prefix-not
18 Boy
19 Slang for girl
20 Seize
22 Highest part
24 Produce
26 A slight coloring
27 Chew
29 Lack
31 Limbs
32 Heavenly body
33 Day before event
35 Perceive
37 River (Sp.)
38 Limbs
40 Made
41 Member of senate
43 To have
46 A seed vessel
47 Heavenly body
49 Soaked
53 Need
56 To coin
57 Relating to Danes
58 An exclamation
60 Water ditch
62 Beast of burden
63 Bell
64 Growl (archaic)
65 Pronoun
66 Stakes
69 Relate
71 Perished
72 Demeanor
74 Destruction
76 Renders palatable
78 Incline
80 Tough timber
82 Fashion
84 Boat riding
88 Wicked
90 Recover
93 Tavern
94 Expire
95 Grain
96 Noah’s ship
97 A male human being
98 Transaction
100 Narrow fillet
102 Glory
104 Burrows
105 Pure
107 A line
108 To tear
109 Small amount
110 Short sleep
112 Propel
114 Honey gatherer
115 Disclose
116 Not moist
117 Necessary


VERTICAL

 2 Particle
 3 Fasten
 4 Upon
 5 Shackled
 6 Inside
 7 Stained
 9 Upon
10 Negative
11 Recognize
12 Before winter
14 A color
15 Preserve
17 To transfer
18 Appear
19 Cotton seed separators
21 Deep tone
23 Separate
25 Suffix signifying a native
26 Revolve
28 Cry
30 Greek island
32 Fastened with thread
34 A clinging plant
36 Enough
39 Footwear
42 The first man
44 Tears
45 Entreating
47 Entangled
48 Over
49 Decreases
50 Toward
51 Prefix again
52 Danish people
54 Negative
55 Domesticated
56 A crowd
57 Small mark
59 Father
61 Half score
67 Toward
68 Carbon
70 Syllable of the scale
71 Perform
72 Encounter
73 Within
75 Female servant
77 Remain
78 Protruding tooth
79 Stands by
81 Draw together
82 In this place
83 Feels
85 A unit
86 At once
87 Auto appliance
88 Fermented
89 Expend
90 To rage
91 Leave out
92 An old cloth
99 Fasting season
101 A soft drink
103 To trouble
104 Perished
106 Roof covering
109 Honey gatherer
111 Father
113 Doctor (abbr.)
114 To live









PUZZLE NO. 10

SMALL BUT NEAT

By Joseph E. Austrian


Eight unkeyed letters, but on the whole a very good design. Excellent
corner interlock.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |     | 5   |#####| 6   |     | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 11  |     |     |     |#####| 12  |     |     |#####| 13  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |     |     |     | 15  |     |#####| 16  | 17  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 18  |     |     |#####| 19  |     | 20  |     |     |#####| 21  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 22  | 23  |     |#####|     |#####| 24  | 25  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 26  | 27  |     |     |#####| 28  |     | 29  |#####| 30  |     | 31  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 32  |     |     |#####| 33  |     |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     | 35  |     |#####| 36  | 37  |     |#####| 38  | 39  |     | 40  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 41  |     | 42  |#####|     |#####| 43  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 44  | 45  |     |#####| 46  | 47  |     | 48  |     |#####| 49  | 50  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 51  |     |     | 52  |     |     |#####| 53  |     | 54  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 55  |     |     |     |#####| 56  |     |     |#####| 57  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 58  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 59  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 European nation
 6 Importance
11 Uncouth
12 Front
13 Reed instrument
14 Conjure
16 Textile material
18 Right for oxen
19 Musical instrument
21 Consumed
22 Debased coin
24 High priest of Israel
26 Fruit
28 Stupid person
30 The son of Seth
32 Softened bread
33 Violin with three strings
34 River flowing through Florence
36 Attempt
38 Military command
41 Expand
43 Pronoun
44 Make lace
46 Episcopal headdress
49 Rumor (French)
51 Temper
53 Inalienable inheritance
55 Variety of palm
56 Product of electrical decomposition
57 Bank
58 Mixes
59 First-born


VERTICAL

 1 Formal and forbidding
 2 Norse writing
 3 Allude
 4 Recent (prefix)
 5 Always
 6 Peruvian prince
 7 Vessel
 8 Secure
 9 Source
10 Beliefs
15 Hill
17 Unit
20 Elastic fluid
23 Fabulist
25 Water of forgetfulness
27 Oxygen and nitrogen
28 Skillful
29 Empyrean
31 Unctuous liquid
34 Assault
35 Observe
37 Made of curled hair
39 Roofed street
40 Lavatory
42 Large bird
43 Female bird
45 Soon
47 Egyptian goddess
48 Where marriages are unmade
50 Costumes
52 Australian bird
54 Spread loosely









PUZZLE NO. 11

KEYS AND CROSSES

By Harold McKay


The design of this bath mat is much more cryptic than the words you
will be called upon to fill in.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |#####|#####| 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |     |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   |     |#####|#####| 10  |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 11  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 12  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  | 14  |#####| 15  |     |     |     | 16  |#####| 17  |     |     |     | 18  |#####| 19  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  |     | 21  |     |     |     |#####| 22  | 23  |     |#####| 24  |     |     | 25  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 26  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 27  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 28  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 29  |     |     |     | 30  |#####| 31  |     |     |     | 32  |#####| 33  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 34  |     |     | 35  |     |     |     |#####| 36  | 37  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####| 38  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 39  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |#####| 41  |     |     |     |     |#####| 42  | 43  |     |     |     |     | 44  |#####| 45  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 46  | 47  |     |     |     |#####| 48  | 49  |     |     |     |#####| 50  |     |     | 51  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 52  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 53  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 54  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 55  |     |     |     | 56  | 57  |#####| 58  |     |     |#####| 59  | 60  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 61  |     |#####| 62  |     |     | 63  |     |#####| 64  | 65  |     |     |     |#####| 66  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 67  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 68  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 69  |     |     |     |     |#####| 70  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 2 Small boat
 6 Answer
11 Anger
12 A lament
13 Conjunction
15 Rock
17 Eligible jurors
19 Note in musical scale
20 Heavy woolen fabric
22 Imitate
24 A surgeon’s cylindrical saw
26 An image
27 Misdeed
28 Quintessence
29 Glide
31 Reason
33 Web-footed birds
34 Wonder
36 Lamentation
38 Fabricated
39 Give
41 Mesial plane
42 Came out
46 Make amends
48 Turret
50 Pleased expression
52 Debate
53 Wager
54 Open space
55 School master
58 Before
59 Large nails
61 Part of “to be”
62 Truck
64 Second cutting of hay
66 Provided that
67 Period of time
68 Strife
69 Drive back
70 Shelters


VERTICAL

 1 Assure
 3 A bird
 4 A metal
 5 Marsh
 7 Period of time
 8 Flat bottomed boat
 9 Lewd smile
10 One who prints
14 Stone
15 Emotional
16 Artist’s stand
17 Enclosures
18 Sleight of hand
19 Religious ceremony
21 Wander
23 A tree
25 Pastries
30 Efface
31 Odor
32 An anesthetic
33 Groups
35 Confusion
37 Part of head
40 A stopper
41 Fancy
42 Pitcher
43 Measure of length
44 Dagger
45 Motives
47 Digits
49 To comply
51 Sediment
56 Knob
57 To ensnare
59 Web-footed bird
60 Saucy
63 A grain
65 Be indebted









PUZZLE NO. 12

A BLACK BEAUTY

By P. B. Geotsch


Anyone who geotsch this one is good. This one shows how hard it is to
solve a puzzle with many unkeyed letters.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   |#####| 4   |     |     |     | 5   |#####| 6   | 7   |     | 8   |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 9   |     | 10  |     |#####|#####|#####| 11  | 12  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  | 14  |#####| 15  |     |     | 16  |#####| 17  |     |     |     |#####| 18  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 19  |     | 20  |#####|     |#####| 21  | 22  |     |#####|     |#####| 23  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 24  |     |     |#####| 25  |     |     |     | 26  |#####| 27  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 28  |     |     |#####| 29  |     |#####|     |#####| 30  | 31  |#####| 32  |     | 33  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 34  | 35  |     |#####| 36  |     | 37  |#####| 38  | 39  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 40  |     |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 42  |     |     |#####| 43  | 44  |     |#####| 45  |     | 46  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  | 48  |     |#####| 49  | 50  |#####|     |#####| 51  |     |#####| 52  | 53  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 54  |     |     |#####| 55  | 56  |     | 57  |     |#####| 58  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 59  |     |     |#####| 60  |#####| 61  |     |     |#####| 62  |#####| 63  |     | 64  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  |     |#####| 66  |     | 67  |     |#####| 68  | 69  |     | 70  |#####| 71  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 72  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 73  |     |     | 74  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 75  |     |     |     |#####| 76  |     |     |     |     |#####| 77  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 To become insolvent
 4 A long-legged bird
 6 Presage
 9 A bruise
11 Not working
13 What
15 Cautious
17 In bed
18 Mother
19 To lick up
21 To waste away
23 A sticky substance
24 To silence
25 Encircled
27 Since
28 Beast of burden
29 Article
30 Exclamation
32 Guided
34 Liquid juice of plants
36 Assent
38 Everything
40 To grasp
41 Clamp
42 Also
43 First woman
45 A drink
47 Organ of body
49 Dissent
51 Exist
52 A beam
54 To fall behind
55 To squander
58 A tree
59 Viper
61 An automobile
63 A card
65 Preposition
66 A distance
68 Ireland
71 Exclamation
72 A step
73 Measure of time
75 Remunerated
76 To rub off
77 A vegetable


VERTICAL

 1 Combustible material
 2 Part of “to be”
 3 Vulgar
 4 She
 5 Point of a pen
 6 Aged
 7 Myself
 8 Close to
10 A rodent
12 Cave
14 Very old women
16 To make a mistake
17 Eaten
18 Female horse
20 To go ahead
22 To do as asked
23 To ring a bell
25 Upon
26 Perform
28 To astonish
29 A covering on an automobile
31 Speed
33 A person who dresses fastidiously
35 Past
36 An animal
37 After day
39 Sheltered side
42 To snare
44 An urn-like vessel
46 Song
48 Too
50 Exclamation of pain
51 To exist
53 Coy
56 Part of “to be”
57 A digit
59 Above
60 Sound made by a clock
62 A neck ornament
64 To gain by toil
66 Insane
67 Sheltered side
69 A liquor
70 To catch
72 3.141592
74 Backwards









PUZZLE NO. 13

A GRAND OLD PUZZLE

By Sylvan L. Froelich


There are some grand old words in this puzzle, and the interlock is
something grand also.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   |     | 4   |#####| 5   | 6   | 7   |#####| 8   |     | 9   | 10  | 11  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 12  |     |     |#####| 13  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 14  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  |     |     | 16  |     |#####| 17  |     |     |#####| 18  | 19  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####|     |#####| 20  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     | 22  |     | 23  |#####| 24  |     |     |#####| 25  |     | 26  |     | 27  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 28  |     |     | 29  |#####|     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  | 32  |#####| 33  |     |     | 34  |#####| 35  |     |     |     |#####| 36  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 37  |     |     |#####| 38  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 39  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |#####| 42  |     |     | 43  |#####| 44  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 45  |     |     |     |#####| 46  |#####| 47  |     |     | 48  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 49  | 50  |     |     |     |#####| 51  |     | 52  |#####| 53  |     |     | 54  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####|     |#####| 55  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  |     | 57  |     | 58  |#####| 59  |     |     |#####| 60  |     | 61  |     | 62  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 63  |     |     |#####| 64  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 65  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 66  |     |     |     |     |#####| 67  |     |     |#####| 68  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 African antelope
 5 By means of
 8 Stop
12 Beam
13 Impenetrably hard
14 Secure
15 Adversary
17 Write
18 Produce
20 Woolen material
21 Distribute
24 Female deer
25 Viscous matter of a cell
28 Chalky chemical substance
30 Fracas
31 Preposition
33 Annoy
35 Rhymed composition
36 Live
37 Natural
38 Pendent
39 Edge
40 One
41 Imitated
42 Trimming
44 Suffice
45 Journey
47 Patent
49 Eschew
51 Touch
53 Faith
55 Wanting
56 A drug
59 Be indisposed
60 Matchless
63 Liquid refreshment
64 Malady of the brain
65 Period of time
66 Dropsy
67 Part of verb “to be”
68 Inscription-bearing stone


VERTICAL

 1 Before
 2 Cut
 3 Affirmative
 4 Between dawn and evening
 5 Essay
 6 Boil (Archaic)
 7 Roam
 8 Filthy place
 9 Consumed
10 Sways rhythmically
11 Guided
16 Back tooth
19 Mohammedan world
21 Mode of scenic representation
22 Near
23 Slid
25 Take inconsiderately
26 Affirmative
27 Titanic
29 Used in golf
30 Large volume
32 Cooling device
34 Remnant
35 Domestic animal
36 Assistant
41 Spring up
43 Hazard
45 Toward
46 Basket
48 Negative
50 Sound
51 Headdress
52 Beat
54 Pertaining to sounds
56 Span of time
57 Single
58 Health resort
60 Beast of burden
61 Poem
62 Scrutinize









PUZZLE NO. 14

A QUADRIPUNTAL ASTEROID

By Persephone


A brilliant construction, comprising clever interlocking combined with
symmetry of design. Such a combination is difficult and extremely rare.
To obtain a picture such as this four-pointed star makes a real
treasure of the puzzle.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   |     |/////| 7   |/////| 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |/////|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |#####| 15  |     |     |     |     |/////| 16  |     | 17  |/////| 18  |     |     |     |     |#####| 19  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |     |     |/////|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  | 21  |     |#####| 22  |     |     | 23  |     |/////| 24  | 25  |     |     |     |#####| 26  | 27  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 28  |     |#####| 29  |     |#####| 30  |     |     | 31  |     |     |     |#####| 32  | 33  |#####| 34  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 35  |     | 36  |     |     | 37  |#####| 38  |     |     |     |     |#####| 39  |     |     | 40  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 41  |     |     |#####| 42  |     | 43  |     |#####|     |#####| 44  | 45  |     |     |#####| 46  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |     |     | 48  |#####| 49  |     |     | 50  |#####| 51  |     |     |     |#####| 52  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |/////| 53  |     | 54  |     |     |#####| 55  | 56  |     |#####| 57  |     | 58  |     |     |/////|     |
|     |/////|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|/////| 59  |     |     |     |#####| 60  | 61  |#####|     |#####| 62  |     |#####| 63  |     |     | 64  |/////|
|/////|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |/////|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  |     |/////| 66  |     |     |#####| 67  |     |     |     |     |#####| 68  |     |     |/////| 69  |     |
|     |     |/////|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |/////|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|/////| 70  | 71  |     |     |#####| 72  |     |#####|     |#####| 73  | 74  |#####| 75  |     | 76  |     |/////|
|/////|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |/////|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 77  |/////| 78  |     |     | 79  |     |#####| 80  |     | 81  |#####| 82  | 83  |     |     |     |/////| 84  |
|     |/////|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 85  | 86  |     |     |#####| 87  |     | 88  |     |#####| 89  | 90  |     |     |#####| 91  |     | 92  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 93  |     |     |#####| 94  |     |     |     |#####| 95  |#####| 96  |     |     | 97  |#####| 98  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 99  |     |     | 100 |     |     |#####| 101 | 102 |     | 103 |     |#####| 104 |     | 105 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 106 |     |#####| 107 |     |#####| 108 |     |     |     |     |     | 109 |#####| 110 |     |#####| 111 |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 112 |     | 113 |#####| 114 | 115 |     |     |     |/////| 116 |     |     | 117 |     |#####| 118 |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 119 | 120 |     |     |     |/////| 121 | 122 |     |/////| 123 |     |     | 124 |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |     |     |/////|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 125 |     |     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |/////| 126 |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |/////|     |/////|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 One of the highest order of mammals
 8 Less long
15 Old womanish
16 Little devil
18 Junction
20 Small, explosive report
22 Link
24 Enticed
26 Moisture
28 Aloft
29 A sloth
30 Having three teeth
32 Accomplish
34 Myself
35 Wise counsellor
38 Pertaining to the sister of Osiris
39 To render infamous
41 Anger
42 Observe
44 Between hip bone and false ribs
46 Procure
47 Hub of a wheel
49 A gloomy covering
51 One of a Slavic people of Eastern Germany
52 Location
53 Go in
55 Unclose
57 Faithful
59 Tract on the earth
60 I refuse
62 Belonging to me
63 Paradise
65 Exists
66 Males
67 Proportion; rate
68 Insane
69 Ourselves
70 Vessels for carrying liquids
72 To exist
73 Near
75 Narrow fissure
78 Irritable
80 One indiscriminately
82 Ethyl
85 Weapons
87 African antelope
89 A hairy man
91 Identical
93 Snake that crushes its prey
94 Unfettered
96 Victim
98 Impost
99 A painful swelling
101 Astound
104 Special aptitude
106 The thing
107 Otherwise
108 Sketch
110 Egyptian god represented by lion, cat or hawk
111 Proceed
112 A beverage
114 Lean
116 Different
118 Low, swampy land
119 To consume by using
121 Illimitable period of time
123 Odor
125 To break into fragments
126 Fiscal agent


VERTICAL

 2 Knock lightly
 3 Inward
 4 Hireling
 5 A fermented liquor
 6 Theme
 7 Exist, in the first person
 9 Injured
10 Unit
11 Autocratically controlled
12 Toward
13 Termination
14 Foaming
16 Goddess of fecundity
17 Entreaty
19 To make less sour
21 Musical drama
23 “The sharpest sighted spirit of all in heaven”
25 A parent’s brother
27 An ant
29 In, on, near or by
31 Plunge
33 From; out of
36 At no time
37 Twisted strand
39 Founder and queen of Carthage
40 Flexible; dexterous
43 Small mountain lake
45 Single
48 Foes
50 Behold
51 Ourselves
52 Seats
54 Chinese coins
56 Plate bearing the Eucharist
58 Leaven
59 Venomous little snake
61 Natural combination of metals
62 Rabble
64 A fruit
71 The life principle
72 Cowshed
74 A period of time
76 Angry
77 Rodents
79 Disrupted
80 A tool
81 You
83 Hard fat
84 Under-officers of churches
86 Itinerary
88 Long
90 Exhausted
92 Contagious skin disease
94 To lose remembrance of
95 Crude
97 Asteraceous plant having small white blossoms
100 Maiden loved by Zeus
102 Companion; comrade
103 Hill in Jerusalem
105 Exclamation
108 Fop (slang)
109 Landing place with ascending stairs, in India
113 Timber and shade tree
115 A small insect
117 Before
118 Distant
120 Parent
122 Bovine quadruped
124 The other parent









PUZZLE NO. 15

A QUADRUPLEX QUIDDITY

By Person or Persons Unknown


A truly marvelous study in four-letter words, with some notably lengthy
side-interlocks. The unknown author is to be congratulated.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   |     | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   |     | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  |     |#####| 12  | 13  | 14  |     | 15  | 16  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |#####| 19  |     |     |     |#####| 20  |     |     |     |#####| 21  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 22  |     |#####| 23  |     |     |     |#####| 24  |     |     |     |#####| 25  |     |     |     |#####| 26  |     |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 27  |     |     |     |#####| 28  |     |     |     |#####| 29  |     |     |     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  | 32  |     |     |     |#####| 33  |     |     |     |#####| 34  |     |     |     |#####| 35  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 36  |     |     |     |#####| 37  |     |     |     |#####| 38  |     |     |     |#####| 39  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |#####| 42  |     |     |     |#####| 43  |     |     |     |#####| 44  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 45  |     |#####| 46  |     |     |     |#####| 47  |     |     |     |#####| 48  |     |     |     |#####| 49  |     |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 50  |     |     |     |#####| 51  |     |     |     |#####| 52  |     |     |     |#####| 53  |     |     |     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 54  |     |     |     |#####| 55  |     |     |     |#####| 56  |     |     |     |#####| 57  |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 58  |     |     |     |#####| 59  |     |     |     |#####| 60  |     |     |     |#####| 61  |     |     |     |#####| 62  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 63  |     |     |#####| 64  |     |     |     |#####| 65  |     |     |     |#####| 66  |     |     |     |#####| 67  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 68  |     |#####| 69  |     |     |     |#####| 70  |     |     |     |#####| 71  |     |     |     |#####| 72  |     |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 73  |     |     |     |#####| 74  |     |     |     |#####| 75  |     |     |     |#####| 76  |     |     |     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 77  | 78  |     |     |     |#####| 79  |     |     |     |#####| 80  |     |     |     |#####| 81  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 82  |     |     |     |#####| 83  |     |     |     |#####| 84  |     |     |     |#####| 85  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 86  |     |     |#####| 87  |     |     |     |#####| 88  |     |     |     |#####| 89  |     |     |     |#####| 90  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 91  |     |#####| 92  |     |     |     |#####| 93  |     |     |     |#####| 94  |     |     |     |#####| 95  |     |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 96  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 97  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Amphibious boat
12 Equipped
17 Bustle
18 Worry
19 Tardy
20 Insects
21 French particle
22 Behold
23 Wife of Zeus
24 Walking stick
25 Throw
26 Gruel
27 Peruse
28 Uttered
29 Injury
30 City in Nevada
31 City in New York
33 Lake
34 Blood vessel
35 Leopards
36 Wood
37 Seasoning
38 Dread
39 Mud
40 Ancient English monastery
41 Harden by heat
42 Particles of stone
43 At liberty
44 Pronoun
45 Conjunction
46 Fruit of pine tree
47 Animal group
48 Carry
49 Pedal digit
50 Hybrid animal
51 Swarm
52 Tympanum of ear
53 Related
54 Fat
55 Large stove for hardening
56 Hostile incursion
57 Tardy
58 In front
59 Bivouac
60 Utter musical sounds
61 Trial of speed
63 Regret
64 Staff
65 Search
66 Light red
67 Pronoun
68 Preposition
69 Bottom
70 Sift
71 Generous
72 End of day (poet)
73 High nest
74 Send by telegraph
75 Useless plant
76 Throw
77 Measure of weight
79 Wan
80 Hear
81 Composer
82 European River
83 Ring slowly
84 Come to birth
85 Particle
86 Spring
87 Rule
88 Clean
89 Frame of animal
90 Pronoun
91 French, here
92 Winged mammals
93 Tunes
94 Wind
95 Male person
96 Musical compositions
97 Member of new school


VERTICAL

 1 Blessest
 2 Old form of perform
 3 Act
 4 Body of water
 5 Earth (South Afr.)
 6 Period of time
 7 Thing
 8 Level place
 9 Earth
10 Consumed
11 Point of compass
12 Source
13 Snake-like fish
14 Similar to
15 African antelope
16 Placed
20 Consume by fire
23 Chief
24 Carriage for heavy commodities
25 Small tubular filament
26 Flip
27 Count on
28 Vending
29 Direct
30 Infrequent
32 Musical composer
33 Seize
34 Sell
35 Wharf
37 In a sound condition
38 Cultivated land
39 A weight
41 Audacious
42 Observed
43 Fief
44 Butterfly
46 Restoration to health
47 Assist
48 Two masted vessel
49 Carry
50 Female horse
51 Duration
52 Damp
53 Sharp pointed nail
54 Oaf
55 Vegetable
56 Tumult
57 Ground
58 Common Spanish proper name
59 Snug
60 Solitary
61 Peel
62 Feeling
64 Share
65 Erudition
66 Streaked
67 Mixup
69 Carry
70 Beak
71 Sharp
72 Loosen
73 Space of ground
74 Welt
75 Part of verb “to be”
76 Bird house
78 Venomous snake
79 Utensils
80 Early invader of England
81 Baseball slang term
83 Children
84 Inflection of speech
85 Small animal
87 Rodent
88 Small part
89 Rotten
90 Possesses
92 Have existence
93 Italian particle, used in music
94 Proceed
95 Note in musical scale









PUZZLE NO. 16

A WELL-TIED SAILOR’S KNOT

By Captain F. F. Stewart


The sea contributes a spacious, ample field of voyage. It is remarkable
for the presence of no small units—two or three letter words. You will
observe consistent splicing throughout although the center is a trifle
loose.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   |     | 3   | 4   |#####| 5   |     | 6   |     | 7   |#####| 8   | 9   |     | 10  |     | 11  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 12  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 13  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 15  |     |     |     |     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 17  |     | 18  |     |#####|     |#####| 19  | 20  |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  | 22  |     | 23  |     |#####| 24  |     | 25  |     | 26  |     |     |#####| 27  | 28  |     | 29  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 30  |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |     |#####| 32  |     |     | 33  |#####| 34  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 35  | 36  |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 37  |     | 38  |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 39  |     | 40  |     |     |     |#####| 41  |     | 42  |     | 43  |#####| 44  |     |     | 45  |     | 46  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 47  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 48  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 49  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 50  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 51  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 52  | 53  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 54  |     | 55  |     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  | 57  |     | 58  |     |     |#####| 59  | 60  |     | 61  |     |#####| 62  |     | 63  |     | 64  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 65  |     |     | 66  |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 67  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 68  |     | 69  |     |#####| 70  |     | 71  |     |#####| 72  | 73  |     |     |#####| 74  | 75  |     | 76  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 77  |     |     |     | 78  |#####| 79  |     |     | 80  |     |     |     |#####| 81  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 82  | 83  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 84  |     | 85  |     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 86  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 87  |     |     |     |     |#####| 88  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 89  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 90  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 91  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 92  |     |     |     |     |#####| 93  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Ancient goblet
 5 Puzzle
 8 Noiseless
12 Degree
13 Baking place
14 Consolidation
15 Skeleton of certain Marine Polyps
16 Brute
17 Close with wax
19 Glen
21 Proclamation
24 Felt with pleasure
27 Cleanse lightly with clean water
30 Uncivil
31 Tardy
32 Jewish mystic ornament
34 Rent
35 Stair
37 Become weary
39 Seclude
41 Melted
44 Unit
47 Long stuffed seat
48 High fliers
49 Personal servant
50 Half wit
51 Forcibly concise
52 Island
54 Mineralized vegetable matter
56 Drink habitually
59 Compact
62 Retail in small quantities
65 Texas wild cat
67 Dry
68 Land measure
70 A liberty
72 Extends over
74 Dry
77 Household task
79 Gangway aid
81 Worship
82 Endure
84 Object of worship
86 Circuitous way
87 Dye
88 Pertaining to a ray
89 Presiding dignitary
90 Garment
91 Part of the eye
92 Style of painting
93 Account book


VERTICAL

 1 Arch
 2 Scared
 3 Upright
 4 Half cooked
 5 Fresh
 6 Donkey
 7 Join
 8 Ocean mammal
 9 Internal
10 Fur animal
11 Husbandman
18 Gather
20 Passage
22 Blunt
23 Assess
25 Coachman
26 Christmas
28 Newspaper paragraph
29 Mentally sound
31 Mother of Apollo
33 Rich source of wealth
36 In a peevish manner
38 Cattle thief
39 Long for
40 Lower deck
41 Noted
42 Bewitching
43 Informal ball
45 Denuded
46 Bailiff
53 Feudal slave
55 Imitates
57 Lineal measure
58 An equal
60 Paradise
61 Song
63 Gone west
64 Wild beast covert
66 Soldier equipment
67 Ran fast
68 Opposed to basic
69 Muster roll
71 Consuming
73 Each
75 Wandering
76 Trader
78 Escape
80 Bird
81 Having winds
83 Surface
85 By word of mouth









PUZZLE NO. 17

A TESSELATED TANGLE

By Persephone


Perfect interlocking and very few unkeyed letters! Technically, this
puzzle is nearly perfect. Nor should the strain on the vocabulary be
unduly severe.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   |     | 4   | 5   |#####| 6   | 7   |     | 8   | 9   |#####| 10  | 11  |     | 12  | 13  | 14  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     | 17  |     |     |#####| 18  |     | 19  |     |     |#####| 20  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     |     | 22  |#####| 23  |     |     |     | 24  |     |     |     |     |#####| 25  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 26  |     | 27  |     |     |#####| 28  |     |     |#####| 29  |     | 30  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  | 32  |#####| 33  |     |     |#####| 34  |     |     |     |     |#####| 35  |     |     |#####| 36  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 37  |     | 38  |     |     |     | 39  |#####| 40  |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     | 42  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 43  |     |     |#####| 44  |     | 45  |#####|     |#####| 46  |     |     |#####| 47  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 48  |     |     |#####| 49  |#####| 50  |     | 51  |#####| 52  |     |     |#####| 53  |#####| 54  |     | 55  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  |     |     | 57  |     | 58  |#####| 59  |     | 60  |     |     |#####| 61  |     | 62  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 63  |     |     |     |     |#####| 64  |     |     |#####| 65  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 66  | 67  |     |     |     |     |#####| 68  |     |     |     | 69  |#####| 70  |     |     |     | 71  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 72  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 73  |     |     |#####| 74  |     | 75  |#####|     |#####| 76  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 77  |     | 78  |#####| 79  |     |     |#####| 80  |#####| 81  |     | 82  |#####| 83  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 84  |     |     |     | 85  |     |     |#####| 86  |     | 87  |#####| 88  |     | 89  |     |     |     | 90  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 91  |     |#####| 92  |     |     |#####| 93  |     |     |     |     |#####| 94  |     |     |#####| 95  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 96  |     |     |     | 97  |#####| 98  |     |     |#####| 99  |     |     |     | 100 |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 101 | 102 |     |     |#####| 103 |     | 104 |     |     |     | 105 |     |     |#####| 106 |     | 107 |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 108 |     |     |#####| 109 |     |     |     |     |#####| 110 |     |     |     | 111 |#####| 112 |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 113 |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 114 |     |     |     |     |#####| 115 |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Rank
 6 Paralysis
10 Relating to medicine or doctors
15 Single
16 Fierce jungle beast
18 To brown over a blaze
20 Bustle
21 American Indian of certain tribe
23 Vagrants
25 To pack compactly
26 Matrons
28 Soft plug
29 Deceives
31 Accomplish
33 A dark, viscous liquid
34 Roomy, flat-bottomed boat
35 To be ill
36 A measure of area
37 Unaccustomed
40 That which serves to solve or explain
41 Occupied
43 A metal
44 Corrode
46 Skill
47 Pig
48 Marry
50 Instrument of punishment
52 Unclose
54 Vigor
56 Wind instruments
59 Tranquillity
61 A milk product
63 To bar
64 A grain
65 Frenzy
66 Undermined
68 Opposite middle of ship’s side
70 Inclosed
72 Is company
73 Wield diligently
74 To bow quickly
76 Goddess of Dawn
77 The whole
79 A digit
81 Fragment
83 Beast of burden
84 Dealt with
86 Convulsive gasp
88 Sisterhood
91 The man
92 Insect
93 A principle held as true
94 Contest by force
95 I disagree
96 Fraudulent
98 Solemn promise
99 Tidy; spruce
101 Close to
103 One who frees
106 Father of the gods
108 To call out
109 Less covered
110 A rough
112 Wrath
113 Church holiday
114 A small carnivore
115 Hidden


VERTICAL

 1 Curves
 2 An insect
 3 Urgent want
 4 The thing
 5 To extend from a common point in different directions
 6 A wooden pin
 7 South American Indian
 8 Dull; stupid
 9 At a distance
10 Proceeding
11 In, on, by or near
12 Rodents
13 Artificial language based on Esperanto
14 Craven
17 A vapor
19 Augment
22 The Devil
24 Uncovered
25 Word of unknown meaning occurring often in the Psalms
27 Genus homo
30 Swine
32 Aquatic, fur-bearing animal
36 A shield or protection
38 Highest horizontal timber in a roof
39 Spike
41 Before
42 Woman teacher in private household
45 Highest point
46 To mimic
48 Bad in the highest degree
49 Go in
51 Famous English race
52 Nearly three-quarters of the Earth’s surface
53 A scold
55 Repairs
57 Cleopatra’s last resort
58 Turf
60 An affirmative
61 Small vessel
62 Illimitable period of time
67 Conscious
68 A forbidden drink
69 Rabble
71 A dyestuff
73 A number of animals in a group, herd or flock
75 An underworld god
78 Work
79 Pertaining to tiles
80 Manifestation of respect or reverence
82 In the direction of
83 The great artery
84 From there
85 To pull vigorously
86 Harsh
87 To have a care for
89 Pad worn in a woman’s hair
90 A verse form
96 Garlands bestowed for victories
97 A title of respect
99 At this time
100 The primeval body from which the gods created the world
102 Epoch
104 Implore
105 Small child
107 Natural compound of metals
109 Exist
111 You









PUZZLE NO. 18

HOT CROSS BUNS

By Everett A. Brown


This cookie will put you in a Brown study. The 32 horizontal is to 20
vertical and not to 61 horizontal.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |     |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 11  |#####| 12  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 13  |     |     |     |#####| 14  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  | 16  |#####| 17  |     |     | 18  |#####| 19  |     |     |     |#####| 20  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     | 22  |     |#####| 23  |     | 24  |     |     |#####| 25  | 26  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 28  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 29  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 30  |     |     | 31  |#####| 32  |     |     |     | 33  |#####| 34  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 35  |     | 36  |     |#####|     |#####| 37  | 38  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####| 39  |     |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 41  |#####| 42  |     |     |     |#####| 43  |#####| 44  |     |     | 45  |#####| 46  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  | 48  |     |     |#####| 49  | 50  |     | 51  |     |#####| 52  |     | 53  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 54  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 55  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 56  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 57  |     |     | 58  |#####| 59  |     |     |     | 60  |#####| 61  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 62  |     |#####| 63  | 64  |     |     |#####| 65  |     | 66  |     |#####| 67  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 68  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 69  |     |     | 70  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 71  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 72  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 The end
 6 Serene
12 To explore pryingly
13 God of love
15 Exists
17 Herb used in soups
19 Mediaeval war club
20 Towards
21 Related
23 Eagles
25 Fate
27 Place oneself
28 One of the three forms of matter
29 By way of
30 To engrave
32 Virtuous
34 Pinochle term
35 Residence
37 Ireland
39 Soil
40 Conduit
42 Smooth
44 Enemies
47 Well ventilated
49 Sprinkle
52 Stitched
54 Anger
55 Lubricant
56 Incline the head
57 Deposits
59 South African animal
61 Lazy
62 Upon
63 Veritable
65 Puts with
67 Note of scale
68 Destruction
69 Puppet
71 Foot gear
72 To revere


VERTICAL

 2 Within
 3 Midday
 4 Inquire
 5 Learned (obs.)
 7 Plains
 8 Portion of curve
 9 Student at coeducational institution
10 Part of “to be”
11 Prejudiced
14 Ointment
16 Sketch
18 Jason’s ship
19 Plateau
20 Labor
22 Tickling sensation
24 Spikenard
26 Part of stove
31 Decorative shrub
32 Edible flesh
33 Leafy
34 Sources of minerals
36 Extinct bird of New Zealand
38 River (Spanish)
41 Mariner
42 Victim
43 Air
45 Dispatch
46 To make beloved
48 Plateau in Asia
50 Upright support
51 Girl’s name meaning “fostering”
53 Wild beast
58 To shock
59 The moon
60 Coalesces
61 Island
64 Free from
66 Small spot
68 Egyptian sun-god
70 French article









PUZZLE NO. 19

STEPPING STONES

By D. Weiner


This looks like a rocky road. Don’t trip over it. Constructionists
will please notice that there is not a single unkeyed letter in
this chef d’ouvre.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  |#####| 11  | 12  | 13  | 14  | 15  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 16  |     |     |     |     |#####| 17  |     |     |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 19  |     |     |     |     | 20  |     |     |#####| 21  |     | 22  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 23  |     |     |#####| 24  |     |     |     | 25  |     |     |     |     |#####| 26  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  |     |     | 28  |     |     |#####| 29  |     |     |#####| 30  |     | 31  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 32  |     |     |#####|#####| 33  |     |     |#####|#####| 34  |     |     |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 35  | 36  |     |     |#####|#####| 37  |     |     |     | 38  |#####|#####| 39  |     | 40  | 41  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 42  |     |     |     | 43  | 44  |     |     |#####| 45  |     | 46  | 47  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 48  |     |#####| 49  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 50  |     |     |     |#####| 51  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 52  |     | 53  |     |     |     |     | 54  |#####| 55  |     |     |     |     | 56  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 57  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 58  |     | 59  |     |     |#####|#####| 60  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 61  |     | 62  |#####|#####| 63  |     |     |#####|#####| 64  |     |     |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  | 66  |     |     |     | 67  |#####| 68  |     |     |#####| 69  |     |     |     | 70  | 71  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 72  |     |     |#####| 73  |     | 74  |     |     |     | 75  |     |     |#####| 76  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 77  |     |     | 78  |     |     |     |     |#####| 79  |     |     |     | 80  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 81  |     |     |     |     |#####| 82  |     | 83  |     |     |#####| 84  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 85  |     |     |     |     |#####| 86  |     |     |     |     |#####| 87  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 To drop or cast down
 6 Toughen by use
11 The tails of notes (musical)
16 Secretion of kidneys
17 Wound about
18 In regard to
19 A waterfall
21 Private warfare
23 Tree
24 Wife of a maharaja (Hind.)
26 To mark with ridges
27 Prisoner server certain term (colloq.)
29 Headpiece
30 Philosophy of morals
32 Assistance
33 Little devil
34 Rested
35 To draw out and twist threads
37 Contends with
39 Mumble
42 Reticent
45 One who releases
48 About
49 Painful
50 A sound used to convey meaning
51 Act
52 One who listens
55 Remunerated
57 The burbot
58 Diseased person
60 Expressions of affirmation
61 Segment, circle
63 Spirit
64 Deface
65 Inventor of a gas burner
68 High priest (Bib.)
69 Warbles
72 Girl’s name
73 Give up
76 Lighted
77 Written laws
79 Cloak
81 Oriental guitar
82 Hinder
84 Father’s or mother’s brother
85 Musical drama
86 To eat or wear away
87 One who eats


VERTICAL

 1 Ancient European silver coin
 2 Eradicate
 3 Pertaining to Mithra
 4 Mothers: a Tagalog term
 5 Named
 6 Constant teasing desire
 7 Act of swimming
 8 Above
 9 A patcher
10 Earthly paradise
11 Pupils of military school
12 Unit
13 Rubbish
14 Foolish action
15 Poniards
20 Famous Swiss river
22 Born
25 Inclined plane
28 Clergymen
31 Wood nymph
35 A booth
36 Inner court of Spanish dwelling
37 Willow basket
38 Drainage pipe
40 Sister of Circe (Gr. myth.)
41 Jabs
43 Part of foot
44 Vessel
46 In a humble rank
47 Period of time
53 Salt of stannic acid (chem.)
54 Backturner
55 Called to mind
56 Abandoned ship
59 Heap
62 Pause (poet.)
64 House for unknown dead
65 Singer
66 Remove extremity
67 Seed
69 Affirmative
70 Inventor of sheening process
71 Guide
74 Advise; counsel (Scot.)
75 Great
78 Sailor
80 Heroine in Spenser’s Faerie Queene
83 At









PUZZLE NO. 20

FIVE GREEK CROSSES

By William Ziegler


Four interesting, independent masses with a solid central interlock.
This is the kind that leads you merrily on from one section to
another.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   |     |#####| 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  |#####| 14  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 15  |     |     |     |     |#####| 16  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  | 18  |#####| 19  |     |     |     |     |#####| 20  |     |     |     |     |#####| 21  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 22  |     | 23  |#####| 24  |     |     |#####| 25  |#####| 26  |     |     |#####| 27  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 28  |     |     | 29  |#####| 30  |     | 31  |     | 32  |     |     |#####| 33  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     |     |     | 35  |#####| 36  |     |     |     |     |#####| 37  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 38  |     |     |     |     | 39  |#####| 40  |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 42  |     | 43  |     |#####| 44  | 45  |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####| 46  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 47  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 48  |#####| 49  |#####| 50  |     |     | 51  |#####| 52  |     |     |     |#####| 53  |#####| 54  |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 55  | 56  |     | 57  |     |     |#####| 58  | 59  |     |#####| 60  |     | 61  |     | 62  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 63  |     |     |     |     |#####| 64  |     |     |     | 65  |#####| 66  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 67  |     |     |     |#####| 68  |     |     |     |     |     | 69  |#####| 70  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 71  |     |     |#####| 72  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 73  |     | 74  |#####| 75  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 76  |     |#####| 77  |     |     |     |     |#####| 78  |     |     |     | 79  |#####| 80  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 81  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 82  |     |     |     | 83  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 84  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 85  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 An executive
 7 Assaults
14 Pertaining to tones
15 24 sheets of paper
17 Behold
19 Clothes
20 Undressed kid
21 Parent
22 Give egress
24 Constellation
26 Babylonian war-god
27 Matter in aeriform state
28 Guile
30 Oscillators
33 Bundle
34 Finished
36 Perspire
37 Adhesive compound
38 Staggered
40 Beast of burden
41 Upright
42 Small fur-bearing animal
44 English school
46 Commiseration
47 Partakes of food
50 Wild animal
52 Card game
55 Fruits of genus malaceae
58 Rower
60 Tyrolean song
63 Certain tones in Greek music
64 Auctions
66 Appellations
67 Fool
68 Floor coverings
70 Change position
71 Some
72 Cut and dried grass
73 Amer. Protective Assn. (abbr.)
75 Japanese coin
76 Nickname of Baseball player
77 Keynote
78 Bird
80 Latin conjunction
81 Name of English nobleman
82 To come into
84 Surround
85 Constituent substance


VERTICAL

 2 Near
 3 Mine-roof support
 4 Veins of moth’s wing
 5 Wharves on river
 6 Joints of the arms
 8 Eject stream of water
 9 Suppliants
10 Opera
11 Anger
12 Chinese measure
13 Blooms
16 Woven vessels
18 Believe
21 Agreements
23 Church officer
25 Organs of vision
27 Aeriform mixtures
29 Elongated fish
31 Apart
32 Comfort
33 Utensil
35 Determines
37 Vessel used in constructing bridges
39 Adores
41 White with age
43 American humorist
45 Beverage
48 Edict
49 Appropriately
51 Loud noise
52 Liberate
53 Commonwealth (Antiq.)
54 Agrees
56 Flower
57 Permit
59 Mountain range
61 Barrier
62 Dike
64 Maxim
65 Gazes
68 Light boat
69 Reaches
72 Tribe of Indians
74 Poker term
77 It exists (contr.)
79 Number
81 Thing
83 Red Cross









PUZZLE NO. 21

FOUR LEAF CLOVER

By Marcam


This lucky design offers two unusual features: an excellent
conventionalized figure and freedom from excess of black spaces.
The solution offers difficulties; how much more the construction!
The three-by-five interlocks at the sides in especial deserve
worshipful consideration.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   |     | 3   | 4   |#####| 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  |     |#####| 11  | 12  |     | 13  | 14  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  |     |#####| 16  |     | 17  |#####| 18  |     |     |     |     |#####| 19  |     |     |#####| 20  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 21  |     |#####| 22  | 23  |     |     |     |     |     | 24  |     |#####| 25  | 26  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  | 28  |     |     | 29  |     |     |#####| 30  |     |     |#####| 31  |     | 32  |     |     | 33  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     |#####| 35  |     |     |     | 36  |#####|     |#####| 37  |     |     |     |     |#####| 38  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 39  | 40  |     |     |     |#####| 41  | 42  |     | 43  |     |#####| 44  |     |     | 45  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 46  |#####| 47  |     |     |#####| 48  |     |     |#####| 49  |     | 50  |#####| 51  |     |     |#####| 52  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 53  | 54  |     |#####| 55  | 56  |     |#####| 57  | 58  |     |#####| 59  | 60  |     |#####| 61  | 62  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 63  |     |     | 64  |#####| 65  |     | 66  |     |     |     | 67  |     |     |#####| 68  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 69  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 70  |     |     |     |     |#####| 71  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 72  |     |     |     |#####| 73  | 74  |     |     |     |     |     | 75  |     |#####| 76  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 77  |     |     |#####| 78  |     |     |#####| 79  |     |     |#####| 80  |     | 81  |#####| 82  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 83  | 84  |     |#####| 85  | 86  |     |#####| 87  | 88  |     |#####| 89  | 90  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 91  |     |     |     | 92  |#####| 93  |     | 94  |     |     |#####| 95  |     |     |     | 96  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 97  |     |#####| 98  |     |     | 99  |     |#####|     |#####| 100 | 101 |     |     |     |#####| 102 | 103 |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 104 |     | 105 |     |     |     |     |#####| 106 |     | 107 |#####| 108 |     |     |     | 109 |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 110 |     |#####| 111 |     | 112 |     |     |     | 113 |     |     |#####| 114 |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 115 | 116 |#####| 117 | 118 |     |#####| 119 |     |     |     |     |#####| 120 | 121 |     |#####| 122 |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 123 |     |     |     |     |#####| 124 |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 125 |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Portico
 5 Characterizing the beginning of a period
11 A language of ancient Italy
15 In case
16 A color
18 To strip of rigging
19 A vase
20 Not any
21 Exist
22 Deeply malignant
25 An ejaculation of pain
27 A Greek leader in the Trojan war
30 Female sheep
31 Highest in power
34 True
35 Trades (colloquial)
37 Had business relations
38 Because
39 Cupidity
41 Analysis
44 Wary (slang)
47 Devoured
48 Unclose
49 Permit
51 Bustle
53 Not even
55 The foot of a clawed animal
57 A quick bow
59 Quick to learn
61 Observed
63 One of the seven daughters of Atlas
65 Slovenly women
68 A thread of metal
69 Statues
70 A measure of capacity
71 To take vengeance for
72 Not any
73 Primal
76 Stretched tight
77 Insect
78 Jewish Territorial Organization
79 Before
80 Little devil
82 Born
83 A boy
85 Metal dish
87 A kind of sweet potato
89 Decay
91 Models; standards
93 Facing toward the direction from which a glacier impinges
95 More mature
97 Yes
98 Fathers
100 To expiate
102 Preposition
104 The language of the Frisians
106 Struck
108 To surpass in riding
110 Above and in contact with
111 Consigns to a special category
114 Bone
115 The great god of the sun
117 Perish
119 Get up
120 The Goddess of Dawn
122 A measure of area
123 To be
124 Slapped
125 Heliograph (colloquial)


VERTICAL

 1 Religious
 2 From
 3 Iron vessel for holding an illuminant
 4 The man
 6 A low form of wit
 7 On one occasion
 8 Diadems
 9 Sum paid for service
10 Past
11 Otherwise
12 Forced the air audibly through the nose
13 One, or any
14 Memoranda
17 Fear of impending evil
19 Customary
21 Beside
23 Cleopatra’s final remedy
24 Employ
26 You and I
28 A length of unshaped timber
29 To move swiftly
32 A fold of cloth
33 Have permission
36 Undermine
37 Coloring
40 Brightly
42 Emotion
43 Cattle of a certain breed
45 A mare famed in story
46 Existing in name only
48 Said to be a wise bird
50 Color imparted to the skin by the sun
52 Less bitter
54 A faithful friend
56 Piece of property
58 Aquatic, fur-bearing animal
60 Sacred poem
62 To debate
64 A stage of life
66 Forbidden by the 18th Amendment
67 To soak
68 Rainy
74 To hang down; droop
75 Intention; design
78 Mental images
81 To stamp something in or on
84 Adds as an accessory
86 A patient beast
88 A king of Judah
90 Laborious
91 Sky and war god of Teutons
92 Steeple
94 That from which anything primarily proceeds
95 To excite to activity
96 Relieved of
97 In flames
99 Title bestowed on aviators after certain accomplishments
101 One end of a shoe
103 An African
105 A maiden changed into a heifer by Hera
106 The wife of Zeus
107 Work; undertaking
109 Exists
112 To lick up with the tongue
113 A little pile of sand
116 A tool
118 The thing
121 An exclamation
122 Sloth









PUZZLE NO. 22

AT THE CROSSROADS

By Helen V. Christ


Small, but plenty of unusual words to tax the lobes of your brain and
the pages of your dictionary. Do you like difficult words? However, we
have one or two still harder than this one.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |     | 5   | 6   |#####| 7   | 8   |     | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  |     |     |     |#####| 14  |     | 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 17  |     | 18  |#####| 19  |     |     |#####| 20  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  | 22  |#####| 23  |     | 24  |#####|     |#####| 25  |     |     |#####| 26  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  |     | 28  |#####| 29  |     | 30  |#####| 31  |     |     |#####| 32  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 33  |     |     | 34  |#####| 35  |     | 36  |     |     |#####| 37  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 38  |     |     |#####| 39  |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 41  | 42  |     |     |#####| 43  |     |     |     | 44  |#####| 45  |     | 46  | 47  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 48  |     |     |#####| 49  |     |     |#####| 50  |     | 51  |#####| 52  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 53  |     |#####| 54  |     |     |#####| 55  |#####| 56  |     | 57  |#####| 58  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 59  |     |     |#####| 60  |     | 61  |#####| 62  |     | 63  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 64  | 65  |     |     |#####| 66  |     |     |     | 67  |#####| 68  |     | 69  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 70  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 71  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Herbivorous fish-like mammal of the Atlantic shores
 7 Quick succession of notes from a horn
13 Minor prophet (8th century B.C.)
14 To conceal or store as in the earth; hide
16 A light-yellowish brown
17 A piece of metal that holds another in place, or adjusts a bearing
19 Regret
20 Scot.—“to go”
21 Close to; near by; in; within
23 Little island, especially in inland waters
25 Have a purpose; endeavor earnestly
26 Copper (Chem.)
27 Roam idly abroad; ramble; stray
29 Changeling
31 Priest’s white linen vestment
32 Close; obstruct; hinder
33 Shield or defensive armor, as the mantle of Minerva
35 Mountain range in N. E. Utah
37 Constituting a large number; numerous
38 Heavy textile fabric, made in one piece, to cover a portion of
   a floor
39 Parasite
40 Part of the verb “to be”
41 Notify or summon
43 Showiness of achievement; brilliancy
45 Bind to secrecy
48 Make, grow, or seem to grow old
49 Exclamation of repugnance or disgust
50 Steep, or soak, as flax
52 Be slow; tardy; late
53 Preposition
54 Suffix used to form present participles
56 Pet or strike softly
58 Abbreviation for “company”
59 Brief poem characterized by exalted feeling
60 Carryall
62 Power of comprehending and judging
64 Slang for “no”
66 Court
68 God (Latin)
70 Betrayal; treachery; or breach of allegiance
71 Now going on; current


VERTICAL

 1 Carry out by action, effort, or skill of any kind
 2 Part of the verb “to be”
 3 Square or rectangular block of wood
 4 Largest continent
 5 Prefix, from, out of; used before many words beginning with a
   consonant
 6 Auditory organ
 7 Belonging to a particular genus or class; definite article
 8 Scot: one
 9 Flock; brood
10 Bad luck; loss; the worst; also the best
11 Abbreviation for “railroad”
12 Art or practice of foretelling by signs or omens
15 Drinking vessel
18 From Greek “life”: a combining form
20 Protecting crane-arm; jib
22 Something attached
24 Letter in the Greek alphabet
25 Biol: A wing, or a wing-like part
26 Be able
28 Funeral hymn or tune
30 Small seed-eating bird, as a bunting, sparrow
31 The fragrant essential oil extract from rose petals
32 Bark-tanned sheep-skin for bookbinding
34 Woo
36 Nothing
37 Tangled
41 Secure a patent for
42 Gone by; past
43 Biol: An ovum or germ cell
44 Spread loosely for drying, as newly mown grass
46 Resinous substance exuded from an East-Indian scale-insect and used
   in making varnishes
47 One who advocates or practises egoism
49 French: Fem. gen. “one”; an;
51 Beat; torture; vex; also to harden or prepare
54 Any product of mental apprehension or activity
55 Conjunction
57 Offers
59 Poetic: to open
60 Bar
61 Drink slowly
63 Golf term
65 Conjunction
66 River in Italy
67 Conjunction
69 Prefix (negative)









PUZZLE NO. 23

CROSSWORD VALENTINE

By J. W. Shaw


This contributor has dedicated himself to romance. We wish we knew the lady to whom he devoted this valentine.

                  +-----+-----+-----+-----+                                         +-----+-----+-----+-----+
                  | 1   |     | 2   | 3   |                                         | 4   | 5   |     | 6   |
                  |     |     |     |     |                                         |     |     |     |     |
            +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+                             +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
            | 7   |     |#####| 8   |     | 9   |                             | 10  |     |     |#####| 11  | 12  |
            |     |     |#####|     |     |     |                             |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+                 +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
      | 13  |     |     |     |     |     |     | 14  |                 | 15  |     |     |     |     |     |     | 16  |
      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                 |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+     +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
      |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####| 17  |     | 18  |     | 19  |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |
      |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+     +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  |     |#####| 21  |     | 22  | 23  |     |     |     |     | 24  |     | 25  |#####| 26  |     |     |#####| 27  | 28  |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 29  |     |#####|#####|#####| 30  |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####| 31  |     |     |
|     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 32  |     |#####| 33  | 34  |     |     | 35  |#####| 36  |     | 37  | 38  |     |#####| 39  |     |     |#####| 40  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 41  |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####| 42  |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####| 43  |     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 44  | 45  | 46  |     |     |     | 47  |     |#####| 48  |     |     |     | 49  | 50  |     |     | 51  | 52  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
      | 53  |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####| 54  |     |#####|#####| 55  |     |     |
      |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |
      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
      | 56  |     |     | 57  |#####| 58  |     | 59  | 60  | 61  | 62  |     |     |     |#####| 63  |     |     |     |
      |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
            | 64  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 65  |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####| 66  |     |     |
            |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
            +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                  | 67  |     | 68  |     |#####| 69  |     |     |#####| 70  |#####| 71  | 72  |     |     |
                  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
                  +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                        | 73  |     |     |#####| 74  |     |#####| 75  |     |#####| 76  |     |     |
                        |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |
                        +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                              | 77  |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |
                              |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |
                              +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                                    |     |#####| 78  | 79  | 80  | 81  | 82  |#####|#####|
                                    |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|
                                    +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                                          | 83  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
                                          |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
                                          +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                                                | 84  |     |     |     |     |
                                                |     |     |     |     |     |
                                                +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
                                                      | 85  |     |     |
                                                      |     |     |     |
                                                      +-----+-----+-----+
                                                            |     |
                                                            |     |
                                                            +-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 To the inside of
 4 Shaft
 7 Otherwise
 8 Globe
10 A flattish mass of anything soft or moist
11 Note of scale
13 Cheaters
15 Plans
17 Exclamation of triumph
19 Behold
20 As
21 Stupefied by medicine
24 Consumed
26 A unit of electricity
27 Egyptian sun god
29 Mama (abbr.)
30 None
31 Transgress
32 Neuter pronoun
33 Degrees of speed
36 Cunning (colloq.)
39 Remuneration for personal service
40 Else
41 Hubbub
42 Act
43 Indo-Chinese language
44 Alienate
48 Societies
53 Period of time
54 Second person plural
55 Animal
56 Labels
58 Caught again
63 Swing off balance
64 Fondle
65 Nimbus
66 Liquor
67 Peddle
69 Wrath
71 Employs
73 Chum
74 Personal pronoun
75 From
76 Greek prefix-combining form
77 Paternal parent
78 Fruit
83 Begun again
84 Stood by
85 Papa


VERTICAL

 1 Man’s name
 2 Small child
 3 Mineral
 4 Companion
 5 Japanese shawl
 6 Yale
 7 Instead
 9 Boast
10 Note of scale
12 Diphthong
13 Revel, glut
14 Pronoun, first person singular
15 Vessel
16 Grievest
18 After the birth of Christ
19 Note in scale
20 Grin
22 Affiliation
23 Procured
25 Northern animal
26 Part of wheat plant
28 Curtain
33 Sheds
34 Female name
35 Obtain redress by law proceedings
37 Female name
38 Small cottage
45 Ready
46 Snare
47 Monkeys
49 Orb
50 To reverence
51 Appendages
52 Small island
57 Stride
59 Sewing implements
60 Not common
61 Liquor
62 Italian river
63 Oriental weight
68 Fold over
70 Providing
72 Ocean
79 Girl’s name
80 Ancient Grecian coin
81 Was indebted to
82 Male name









PUZZLE NO. 24

EIGHTEEN KARAT

By Harry Friedman


The author, a jeweler of Maiden Lane, dragged this from his treasure
chest. After you do it, you’ll agree it’s a gem.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |     |#####| 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   |#####| 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |     |     |     |     |#####| 15  |     |     |     |     | 16  |#####| 17  |     |     |     | 18  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 19  |     |     |     |#####| 20  |     |     |     |     |     |     | 21  |#####| 22  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 23  |     |     |     | 24  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 25  |     |     | 26  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  |     |#####| 28  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 29  |     |     |     |     |#####| 30  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 31  |     |     |#####| 32  |     | 33  | 34  |     |     |#####| 35  |     | 36  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 37  |     |     |     | 38  |#####| 39  |     |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |     | 41  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 42  |     |     |     |     |     | 43  |#####| 44  |     |#####| 45  |     |     |     |     |     | 46  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |     |     |#####|#####| 48  |     | 49  |#####|#####| 50  |     |     |#####|#####| 51  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 52  |     |     |#####|#####| 53  |     |     |#####|#####| 54  |     |     |#####|#####| 55  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  |     |     | 57  | 58  |     |     |#####| 59  | 60  |#####| 61  |     | 62  | 63  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 64  |     |     |     |     |#####| 65  |     |     | 66  |#####| 67  |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 68  |#####| 69  |     |     |#####| 70  |     |     |     |     | 71  |#####| 72  |     |     |#####| 73  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 74  | 75  |#####| 76  |     | 77  |     |     |#####|#####| 78  |     | 79  |     |     |#####| 80  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 81  |     | 82  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 83  |     |     |     |     | 84  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 85  |     |     |     |#####| 86  |     |     | 87  | 88  |     |     |     |#####| 89  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 90  |     |     |     | 91  |#####| 92  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 93  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 94  |     |     |     |     |#####| 95  |     |     |     |#####| 96  |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Savory
 5 Cuts
 9 Visible moisture
14 Ladies
15 Cruel ruler
17 Part of a Mohammedan house
19 On any occasion
20 Judicious
22 Priest
23 Encounter
25 Constructive Metabolism
27 Else
28 Slow (musical term)
29 Peninsula in East Asia
30 Toward
31 Downcast
32 Killer
35 Utmost possible
37 Pertaining to eye
39 Water pitcher
40 Limb (anat.)
42 Not lawful
44 Note of scale
45 Covered with a cupola
47 Conical mound of earth
48 Tear
50 American Protective Association
51 Daughter of Cadmus (myth.)
52 Read with attention
53 Beverage
54 Transgress
55 Nothing
56 Crouches
59 Interrogation
61 Shrill, discordant whistle
64 Procreated
65 Highway
67 Beam, set as a prop
69 Angling term
70 Goddess of the hearth
72 One
74 Conjunction
76 Public assembly
78 Forcibly
80 One
81 Falsetto tenor voice
83 Capturing cattle
85 A special privilege
86 Of boundless extent
89 Tune
90 Wanderer
92 Philosophers
93 Engraved circular piece of metal
94 Restore
95 Term used in printing
96 Disinfectant


VERTICAL

 1 Flavor
 2 Expression of hearty assent
 3 Blow through
 4 Part of verb “to be”
 5 Regular contraction of the heart
 6 Curve
 7 Contest between nations
 8 Cowardly fellow
10 Exclamation
11 City in California
12 Verbal
13 Forgive
14 Lure into danger
15 Colors
16 Drift
18 City in Georgia
20 Put on
21 Sailor
24 Re-excavate
26 Defy
31 Lustrous
33 Tool
34 Affirmative
36 Body that gives light
37 Oily
38 Carried in a wagon
40 Pineapples
41 Aged
42 Disease of the skin
43 Prevaricates
45 Noble
46 Child’s toy
49 Parent
50 Like
57 Interpreter to an embassy
58 Person afflicted with abhorrent disease
59 Goddess of the dawn
60 Article of apparel
62 An opera
63 Signifies
65 Retaliates
66 Language as modified by local peculiarities
68 Silk fabric
70 Sharpens
71 Accumulate
73 Ministering spirit
75 Gentleman
77 Sort of glove
79 Beast of burden
80 Record of a single year
82 Designate
84 Indicating presence of iodine (comb. form)
87 Pithy saying
88 Misleading statement
91 From (prefix)
93 Mine









PUZZLE NO. 25

HONEYMOON HOKUM

By Mr. and Mrs. William Stern II


They constructed this on their honeymoon, which is a good argument
for marriage.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\| 4   |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\| 8   |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\| 1   | 2   | 3   |     | 5   |     |\\\\\| 6   | 7   |     | 9   | 10  | 11  |\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 12  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 13  |#####| 14  |     |     |     |     | 15  |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 16  |     |     |     |#####| 17  | 18  |     | 19  |     |#####| 20  |     |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 21  |     |     |     |#####| 22  |     |     |     |     |#####| 23  |     |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 24  |     |     |#####|#####| 25  |     |     |     |     |     | 26  |#####|#####| 27  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 28  |     | 29  | 30  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 31  |     | 32  | 33  |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|     |#####| 34  |     |     |#####| 35  |     | 36  |#####| 37  |     |     |#####|     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\| 38  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 39  |#####| 40  |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |#####| 42  |     |     |#####| 43  |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 44  | 45  |     |     |     | 46  |#####|     |#####| 47  |     |     |     | 48  |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 49  |     |     |#####|#####| 50  |     | 51  |     | 52  |     |     |#####|#####| 53  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 54  |     | 55  | 56  |#####| 57  |     |     |     |     |#####| 58  | 59  |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 60  |     |     |     |#####| 61  |     |     |     |     |#####| 62  |     |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 63  |     |     |     | 64  |     |#####|     |#####| 65  | 66  |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\| 67  |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\| 68  |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Leaves of corolla
 6 Pertaining to particles
12 Soda ash
14 Part of optical or surveying instrument
16 Neighborly gatherings for special purposes
17 Drives with blows
20 Kind of fish
21 Outside covering
22 Subdues
23 Spill
24 In favor of
25 Suits
27 Decay
28 Kind of walking stick
31 Lost cattle
34 Entered in political contest
35 Swamp land
37 Groove
38 Apparently contrary to truth (adverb)
40 Tavern
41 Young dog
42 Form of entertainment
44 Anything that heals
47 Tumults
49 Male of kind of mammal
50 Seamen
53 Endeavor
54 Relate
57 Excretion from kidneys
58 Projecting part of building
60 Dish of many ingredients
61 Allots
62 Den
63 Alter, correct
65 Cases of wooden slats
67 Indicate
68 Laxer


VERTICAL

 1 Membrane lining thorax of mammals
 2 Pieces out
 3 Stint
 4 Crony
 5 Hearken
 7 Drinking cups
 8 Sun
 9 Omit
10 Object of devotion
11 Unit of heat
12 Avoids
13 Fondness for one’s own sex
15 Displace
18 Base of shellac
19 Something prized
25 “Yes, we have no”
26 Cloud form
29 Path
30 Mountain lakes
32 Canons
33 Large size paper
35 Dude
36 Pinch
39 One who puts an end to
43 Willows
45 Anointed
46 False god or idol
47 Painting on plaster
48 Less difficult
51 Wrath
52 Indefinite pronoun
55 Be alive
56 Cut of meat
58 Exclamation of sorrow
59 Head
64 Female of kind of pachyderm
66 Take by force









PUZZLE NO. 26

FOR THE ZIGZAG ZEALOT

By Joseph H. Gersten


This pattern zigs itself one way and zags itself the other way. Even
the most zealous will find some unusual words.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   |     |#####| 7   |#####| 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |#####| 15  |     |     |     |     |#####| 16  |     | 17  |#####| 18  |     |     |     |     |#####| 19  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  | 21  |#####|     |#####| 22  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 23  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 24  |     | 25  |#####| 26  |     |     |#####| 27  |     |     |#####| 28  |     | 29  |#####| 30  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  |     |     | 32  |     |     |#####| 33  |#####|     |#####| 34  |#####| 35  |     | 36  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 37  |     |     |     |     |#####| 38  |     | 39  |     | 40  |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 42  |     |     |#####| 43  | 44  |#####| 45  |     |     |     |     |#####| 46  |     |#####| 47  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 48  |     |#####| 49  |     |     |     |#####| 50  |     |     |#####| 51  |     |     | 52  |#####| 53  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 54  |     |     |     |#####| 55  |     |     |     | 56  |#####| 57  |     |     | 58  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 59  |     |     |#####|#####| 60  |     |     |#####| 61  |     |     |#####|#####| 62  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 63  |#####| 64  |     | 65  | 66  |#####| 67  |     | 68  |     |     |#####| 69  | 70  |     |     |#####| 71  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 72  | 73  |#####| 74  |     |     | 75  |#####| 76  |     |     |#####| 77  |     |     |     |#####| 78  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 79  |     | 80  |#####| 81  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 82  |     |     |     |#####| 83  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 84  |     |     | 85  |     |     |     |#####| 86  |     | 87  |#####| 88  |     |     | 89  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 90  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 91  |     |     |     | 92  |#####|     |#####| 93  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 94  |     |     |#####| 95  |     | 96  |     |#####|     |#####| 97  | 98  |     | 99  |#####| 100 |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 101 |     |#####| 102 |     |     |     |#####| 103 |     | 104 |#####| 105 |     |     | 106 |#####| 107 |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 108 |     |     |     |#####| 109 |     |     |     | 110 |#####| 111 |     |     | 112 |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 113 |     |     |     |#####| 114 |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 115 |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Layer of bets by word
 8 Severely self-denying
15 Exclusively
16 Non-poisonous serpent
18 The large intestine
20 Part of “to be”
22 Entertainment
23 On condition that
24 Automobile
26 Young dog
27 Friendly hint
28 Beverage
30 Cloth measure
31 Noblewomen
35 Winding about and constantly receding from a center
37 In a tilted manner
38 Brain-box
41 Secret
42 Large cask
43 Conjunction
45 Intensity of passion
46 Note of diatonic scale
47 Small dram
48 In the manner of
49 Agitate
50 Humans
51 Race
53 Prefix meaning “with”
54 Italian composer
55 Pertaining to weight
57 Ardor
59 Fool
60 A low fellow
61 Where animals are kept
62 A useful insect
64 Strip of wood
67 Domesticated
69 Behind the time
72 Silver (chemical)
74 Exclamation
76 Sister
77 A heavenly body
78 Objective pronoun
79 The spawn of fishes
81 King of Norway who christened the country
82 Stretched tight
83 Intention
84 A bright-colored North American bird
86 Metal bearing rock
88 To be agitated
90 An object of worship
91 The positive terminal of a cell
93 Snake-like fishes
94 Recent
95 Sojourn
97 A Scottish Highlander
100 Hinder
101 Edition (abbr.)
102 Cast-off
103 Part of the shoe
105 Christmas (French)
107 Egyptian god
108 Genuine
109 A passageway
111 Ingenuously piquant
113 To be extremely fond of
114 Strength
115 Chief officer of a cathedral


VERTICAL

 2 Egyptian god
 3 Beverage
 4 Behold
 5 River of India
 6 Trickle (Scotch)
 7 Plant of the parsley family
 9 Native of Scotland
10 Figures that taper uniformly from a circular base
11 Elevated railroad
12 A weight of about 28 lbs.
13 Within
14 A coarse, transparent muslin
16 Pledge
17 Venomous serpent
19 A kind of candy
21 A conspicuous passage
23 Pertaining to Slavs
25 Germanic god
26 Small
29 Terrify
30 Ireland
32 French for “he”
33 Period of time
34 Low-bred dog
36 Not (prefix)
39 Fleets of war vessels
40 Decomposes into molecules
44 Tree
46 Sheltered side
49 Black
52 A small drum
54 Secretion
55 Nocturnal flying mammal
56 A pod or husk
58 Not old
63 A strict disciplinarian
65 State of excitement
66 Clever
68 Little world
69 A large fish
70 Deceased
71 A school term
73 Incited
75 Dare (obs.)
77 Rested
78 A pale moth with floury wings
80 Enough
83 One of Adam’s sons
85 Arabic article
86 Upon
87 Boy’s nickname
89 Pronoun
91 Yes
92 For instance
95 Covering of the foot
96 In the Year of Our Lord
98 Indefinite article
99 Show the way
102 A drunkard
103 Spanish for “aunt”
104 High priest
106 A falsehood
108 Proceed
109 By
110 Half a printer’s unit
112 A note of the scale









PUZZLE NO. 27

THIS TAKES THE CAKE

By M. H. Ronzone


Cut yourself a piece of this one. It’s a mouthful. A fine mixture of
long and short words.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  |     |#####| 11  | 12  | 13  | 14  |     | 15  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 16  |     |     |     | 17  |#####| 18  |     |     |     |#####| 19  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  | 21  |#####| 22  |     |     |     |     |#####| 23  |     |#####| 24  |     |     |     |     |#####| 25  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 26  |     | 27  |#####| 28  |     |     |#####| 29  |     |     | 30  |#####| 31  |     |     |#####| 32  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 33  |     |     | 34  |#####| 35  |     | 36  |     |#####|#####| 37  | 38  |     |     |#####| 39  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |     |     |     | 41  |#####| 42  |     |     | 43  | 44  |     |     |     |#####| 45  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 46  |     |     |     | 47  |#####| 48  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 49  |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 50  |#####|     |#####| 51  |     | 52  |#####|     |#####|#####|     |#####| 53  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 54  |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 55  | 56  |#####| 57  |     |     |     |     |#####| 58  | 59  |#####| 60  |     |     |     | 61  |#####| 62  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 63  |     | 64  |     |#####| 65  |     |#####| 66  |     |     | 67  |     |     |     |#####| 68  | 69  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 70  |     |     |     |#####| 71  |     | 72  |     |     |     |     |#####| 73  |     |#####| 74  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 75  |     |#####| 76  | 77  |     |     |     |#####| 78  |     |#####| 79  |     |     | 80  |     |#####| 81  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 82  |#####| 83  |     |     |#####| 84  |#####|#####| 85  |#####| 86  |     |     |#####| 87  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 88  |     | 89  |     |     |#####| 90  |     | 91  | 92  |     | 93  |#####| 94  |     | 95  |     | 96  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 97  |     |     |     |     |#####| 98  |     |     |     |     |     |     | 99  |#####| 100 |     |     |     | 101 |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 102 |     |     |     |#####| 103 |     |     |     |#####|#####| 104 |     |     | 105 |#####| 106 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 107 |     |     |#####| 108 |     |     |#####| 109 | 110 | 111 |     |#####| 112 |     | 113 |#####| 114 |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 115 |     |#####| 116 |     |     |     |     |#####| 117 |     |#####| 118 |     |     |     | 119 |#####| 120 |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 121 |     |     |     |     |#####| 122 |     |     | 123 |#####| 124 |     |     |     | 125 |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 126 |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 127 |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 128 |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Sluggish inlets
 6 To flatter grossly
11 All but
16 A folding frame
18 An East Indian tree
19 A fine soft powder
20 Exclamation of surprise
22 High temperature
23 Denial
24 Vegetables with dressing
25 Conjunction
26 Small barrel
28 To make or mend
29 Identity
31 Compound, as of atoms
32 Term of address
33 English nobleman
35 Ascent
37 Unctuous
39 Luminous circle
40 Sailing vessel
42 Props
45 H2O
46 Woodland deity
48 Adorns with colors
49 Energy
51 Measure of length
53 Tiny
55 Form of verb “to be”
57 Measuring instrument
58 Mother
60 Stanza
62 Depart
63 Cognomen
65 Indefinite article
66 Plural of Asiatic country
68 Encourage
70 Bonds
71 State in Mexico
73 Therefore
74 That on which one sits
75 Spiritual essence of Hindus
76 Grudge
78 So
79 Faculty of sensation
81 Note of musical scale
83 Fish spawn
86 Jurisprudence
88 Started
90 Balanced
94 Lemon-like fruit
97 Fresh set
98 Pertaining to seasons
100 A pattern
102 Helper
103 To converse
104 So be it
106 Fruit juice
107 Arm of the sea
108 Female rabbit
109 Infernal regions
112 Solemn promise
114 Small insect
115 Near
116 Sway
117 To accomplish
118 Elementary substance
120 On
121 A thin biscuit
122 Chief
124 Carouse
126 Happenings
127 South American vulture
128 Round-about way


VERTICAL

 1 Ferns
 2 Personal pronoun
 3 Simpleton
 4 Employs
 5 Cleave asunder
 7 Elevated
 8 Vocal inflection
 9 Implement
10 Measure in printing
11 Mixture
12 Something lent
13 Mire
14 Gold
15 Fear
17 A noted American explorer
19 Leaves undone
21 Cures
25 A lubricator
27 Moaning sound
29 Leaf of the calyx
30 Two score
32 Satisfied
34 Chance
36 Sip
38 Possessive pronoun
39 Hedge
41 Funeral pile
43 Jumbled type
44 Forward
45 Griefs
47 A turning
49 Relating to private affairs
50 Unrestrained
52 Signify
53 Quadruped of slender form
54 Maker of earthenware
56 Cripple
57 Mixed mast
58 Small table-land
59 Segments of curves
60 Six
61 Repose
62 Toothed wheel
64 Myself
66 Father
67 Yes
69 To exist
72 Part of passive auxiliary
77 Supplicate
80 To float
82 Abdomen
84 Detest
85 Held for sale
87 Middle place
88 Make fast
89 Merry
90 A plant food
91 Part of verb “to be”
92 Provided that
93 Female parent
95 Cut down
96 A plant
97 Mob
98 Precipitous
99 A bar to gain power
101 Epistle
103 Small bays
105 Well known
108 Crazy
110 Paradise
111 Burden
113 Billow
116 Pale
119 Permit
121 Us
122 Halloo
123 Note of diatonic scale
125 Behold









PUZZLE NO. 28

A JERSEY ’SKEETER

By Henry Kroener


This comes from Montclair, and it’ll sting you more than once. Get out
the citronella and go to it.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   |     |#####| 7   |#####| 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  |     | 14  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 15  |     |     |     |     |#####| 16  |     |     |#####| 17  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |     | 19  |#####|     |#####| 20  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  | 22  |     |#####|     |#####| 23  |     | 24  |     | 25  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 26  | 27  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 28  |     |     |#####| 29  |     |     |     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 32  |     |     |#####| 33  |#####| 34  |     |     | 35  |     |     |     |#####| 36  |#####| 37  |     | 38  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 39  | 40  |     | 41  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 42  |     | 43  |     | 44  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 45  |     |     |     |#####| 46  | 47  |     | 48  |     |#####| 49  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 50  | 51  |     |     |     |     | 52  |#####| 53  |     |     |#####| 54  |     |     |     |     | 55  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####|     |#####| 56  |     |     |     |#####| 57  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 58  |     | 59  |     | 60  |     |     |#####| 61  | 62  |     |#####| 63  |     | 64  |     | 65  |     | 66  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 67  |     |     |     |#####| 68  |     |     |     | 69  |#####| 70  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 71  |     |     | 72  |     |#####|     |#####| 73  | 74  |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 75  | 76  | 77  |#####|     |#####| 78  |     | 79  |#####| 80  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 81  | 82  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 83  |     |     |#####| 84  |     |     |     |#####| 85  |     |     | 86  |#####| 87  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 88  |     |     |#####| 89  |#####| 90  |     |     | 91  |     |     |     |     | 92  |#####| 93  |     | 94  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 95  | 96  |     | 97  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 98  |     |     |     |#####| 99  |     |     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 100 |     |     |     |     |#####| 101 |     | 102 |#####| 103 |     |     | 104 |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 105 |     |     |#####| 106 |     |     |     |#####| 107 |     |     |     |#####| 108 |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Design on metal
 8 Fixers of teeth
15 Deck of battleship
16 Floor cleaner
17 Signified
18 One who dispatches
20 Latin tribe
21 Parcel of ground
23 Military leader
26 City in Armenia
28 Protuberant tumor
29 Long
30 Official of Mohammedan Church
31 Foundation
32 Possessive pronoun
34 Try
37 Dip lightly
39 Frozen pendant
42 Entomological prefix
45 River in Russia
46 Lift
49 Arab chief
50 Altar-screen
53 Apostrophic poem
54 Soak
56 Lachrymal exudation
57 Conflicts
58 Female character in Acts XI xxxvi
61 Pedal digit
63 Fire-opal
67 Syrian city
68 Twos
70 Narrow roadway
71 Stand for painting
73 Each
75 Distress signal
78 Circuit
80 Biblical character
81 Jump
83 Court
84 Club
85 Prefix, right
87 The sun
88 Sprite
90 Completed
93 Point
95 Wood
98 Seaport in Columbia
99 Sow (Prov. Eng.)
100 Accustom
101 Equip
103 Belch
105 Artificial ravine
106 Excellent (superlative)
107 Simple
108 Young man


VERTICAL

 1 Mock
 2 Rear
 3 Metallic rock
 4 Bone of arm
 5 Earth
 6 Exceptional
 7 Stronghold
 9 Proceed
10 Point
11 Caudal appendage
12 Hostelry
13 Worker on dock
14 Witnessed (past perf.)
19 Loud talker
20 Easy
22 Be indebted to
24 Stroke
25 Direct
27 Girl’s name
32 Capillary growth
33 Mottled
35 Girl’s name
36 American admiral
38 Circumstance
40 Crack
41 Clad
43 Pendent
44 Herb
47 Large artery
48 Drain
51 Period of time
52 Ocean
54 Unit of work
55 Self
58 Receptacles
59 College degree
60 Snare
62 Lubricant
64 Infrequent
65 Point of compass
66 Closed curve
68 Permission by authority
69 Choose
72 Passes
74 Success
76 Night bird
77 Border (theatrical)
79 Through
80 Before
81 Largest island of Japan
82 Prefix pertaining to oil
86 Prefix, far
88 Noble
89 Beat
91 Shoot
92 Obligation
94 Two together
96 Upon
97 Earlier than
102 Mother
104 Carbon monoxide









PUZZLE NO. 29

UNLUCKY

By Harold H. Hodges


There are thirteen crosses in this widget and the words around them
will make you the same.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   |     | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   |     |#####| 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  |     | 12  | 13  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |     |#####| 15  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 16  |     |     |     |#####| 17  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 18  |     |     | 19  |#####| 20  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  | 22  |#####| 23  |     |     |     |     | 24  |     |     |     |     | 25  |#####| 26  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  |     | 28  |     |     |#####| 29  |     |     |     |     |#####| 30  |     | 31  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 32  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 33  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 34  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 35  |     |     |     | 36  |#####| 37  |     |     |     | 38  |#####| 39  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 40  |     |     | 41  |     |     |#####| 42  |     | 43  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####| 44  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 45  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 46  |#####| 47  |     |     |     |     | 48  |#####| 49  |     |     |     |     | 50  |#####| 51  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 52  | 53  |     |     |     |#####| 54  |     | 55  |     |     |#####| 56  |     |     | 57  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 58  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 59  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 60  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 61  |     |     |     | 62  |#####| 63  |     |     |     | 64  |#####| 65  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 66  |     |#####| 67  |     | 68  |     |     |     |     |     | 69  |     |     |#####| 70  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 71  |     |     |     |#####| 72  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 73  | 74  |#####| 75  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 76  |     |     | 77  |#####| 78  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 79  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 80  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Out of date
 7 Poison found in opium
14 Not you
15 A new star
16 Indivisible
17 Beast of burden
18 Existed
20 To disparage
21 Tone  of diatonic scale
23 An alcoholic liqueur
26 Mixed type
27 To stop
29 Dandies
30 Glory
32 Soapstone
33 To study
34 Italian coin
35 Letter of Greek alphabet
37 Distinctive areas
39 A species of hickory
40 Named
42 Relief
44 To root up
45 Small skin tumor
47 Harmony
49 Acid formed in vegetable jellies
52 Weird
54 The lowest point
56 Clamber up
58 Frosted
59 Amidst
60 March 15th
61 Machine for cutting metal
63 Having more than usual power
65 Stupid fellows
66 In like manner
67 Immoral conduct
70 Tone  of musical scale
71 A prima donna
72 Knobs
73 An interjection
75 Simple
76 A ridge near surface of water
78 Preposition
79 Excluded
80 Instruments for measuring


VERTICAL

 1 A toothsome dish
 2 Exist
 3 Preposition
 4 To frown
 5 Uniform
 6 Ascertained net weight
 8 Stops
 9 Case for small articles
10 Supported
11 Part of the verb “be”
12 Negative
13 Something that arouses
19 Drawn forth
20 Odors
22 A nurse
23 Having vegetable micro-organisms
24 Object of strong devotion
25 The use of a selective method
26 Fine rubber
28 Internal decay in fruit
31 Parasitic insects
36 Got up
37 A mixture of concrete
38 A planter
39 Sunders
41 Silent
43 A resinous substance
46 A reprint
47 Member of an Indian tribe
48 Fruit of the maple tree
49 Chinese English
50 Vulgar fellows
51 Court sittings
53 Repetition of sound
55 To make foul
57 Shelters
62 Amendment to a document
63 An embankment
64 Come into operation
65 An article of property
68 A whirring sound
69 An Old World goat
74 Any male person
75 Mamma
77 Note of diatonic scale
78 Pronoun









PUZZLE NO. 30

SINGLE SPOTTER

By J. T. Delaney


Not so decorative, but a hundred per cent interlock and no two letter
words. Hats off to Mr. Delaney.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   |#####| 4   | 5   |     | 6   |     | 7   | 8   |#####| 9   | 10  |     | 11  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 12  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 13  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  | 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     | 17  |     | 18  |     |     |#####| 19  |     | 20  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     |     |     | 22  |     |#####| 23  |     |     |#####| 24  | 25  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 26  |     |     | 27  |     |#####| 28  | 29  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 30  |     | 31  |     |     |#####| 32  |     | 33  |     |     |#####| 34  |     | 35  |     | 36  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 37  |     |     |#####| 38  | 39  |     |     |     |     |     | 40  |     |#####| 41  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 42  | 43  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 44  |     |     | 45  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 46  |     |     |     |#####| 47  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 48  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 49  |     | 50  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 51  |     | 52  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 53  | 54  |     |#####| 55  |     |     | 56  |     | 57  |     |     |     |#####| 58  | 59  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 60  |     |     | 61  |     |#####| 62  |     |     |     |     |#####| 63  | 64  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 65  |     | 66  |     |     |#####| 67  |     | 68  |     |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 69  |     | 70  |     |     |     |#####| 71  | 72  |     |#####| 73  |     |     | 74  |     | 75  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 76  |     |     |     |#####| 77  | 78  |     |     |     | 79  |     |#####| 80  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 81  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 82  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 83  |     |     |     |#####| 84  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 85  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Float
 4 Insulting
 9 Rim
12 Compass
13 Eskimo hut
14 Annealing oven
16 Sulphide of arsenic
19 Young woman
21 Attract
23 Negative particle
24 Refuting argument
26 Whim
28 Perfume
30 Comedian
32 Discernment
34 Precious stone
37 Always
38 Secondary planet
41 Tailless monkey
42 Offspring
44 Plasterer’s trowel
46 Within
47 Southern fish
48 Man’s name
49 Strum
51 Vestment ribbons
53 Have an obligation
55 Destroy utterly
58 Negative word
60 Nostrils
62 Fit into mortise
63 Animal in embryo
65 Loop of rope
67 Repulse
69 Calm
71 Period
73 Citrus fruit
76 Small songbird
77 Legendary siren
80 Implement
81 Ungulate of South America
82 Compound ether
83 Parti-colored
84 Foreordain
85 Morbid respiratory sound


VERTICAL

 1 Artifice
 2 Vex
 3 System of rates
 4 Concur
 5 Winged insect
 6 Performing alone
 7 By way of
 8 Heron
 9 Short outer waist
10 Bay color mixed with white
11 Netting
15 Happen
17 Lower part of leg
18 Chalice
20 Fragment
22 Hybrid
25 Subsequent
27 Second mowing
29 Hydro carbon of methane series
30 Blessing
31 Waste
33 Proteid
35 Recompense
36 Fanatical partisans
39 Predict
40 Former playing card
43 Interjection
45 Egyptian god of pleasure
50 Exudation of certain plants
52 Allude
54 Sway
56 Restrain
57 Compound polyp
59 Expenditure
61 Plant of the ebony family
64 Snapping beetle
66 Frozen
68 Balance
69 Exchange
70 Plexus
72 Despoiled
74 Ibsen heroine
75 Otherwise
78 Native metal
79 Even









PUZZLE NO. 31

A PRIZE PACKAGE

By H. R. Koegler


The six, seven and nine letter words in this scintillating set-up
will tax your gray matter, if any.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 1   | 2   | 3   |\\\\\| 4   | 5   |     | 6   | 7   | 8   |     | 9   | 10  |\\\\\| 11  | 12  | 13  |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |     |     | 17  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 18  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####| 19  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  |     |     |     |#####| 21  | 22  | 23  | 24  |#####| 25  | 26  | 27  |     |#####| 28  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 29  |     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |     |#####| 32  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 33  | 34  |#####|     |#####|#####| 35  |     |     | 36  |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####| 37  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 38  |     | 39  |     |#####| 40  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | 41  |#####| 42  | 43  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 44  |     |     |     | 45  |     |#####|#####| 46  |     |     |#####|#####| 47  | 48  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 49  |     |     |     |     | 50  | 51  |#####|     |#####| 52  | 53  |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |#####|#####| 54  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 55  |     | 56  | 57  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 58  |     |     | 59  | 60  |     | 61  |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 62  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 63  |     | 64  |#####|#####| 65  |     |     |     |     | 66  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 67  |     |     |     |#####| 68  | 69  | 70  |     |     |     | 71  | 72  |     |#####| 73  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 74  |     |#####|     |#####|#####| 75  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####| 76  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 77  |     |#####| 78  |     |     |     |#####| 79  |     |     | 80  |#####| 81  | 82  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 83  | 84  |     |     |#####| 85  |     |     |     |#####| 86  |     |     |     |#####| 87  |     | 88  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 89  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####| 90  |#####|#####|#####|     |#####| 91  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 92  |     |     |     |     |     | 93  |#####| 94  |     | 95  |#####| 96  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 97  |     |     |\\\\\| 98  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\| 99  |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Container (physiol.)
 4 Two-sided
11 Earth
14 River in Virginia
15 Sweet potato
16 Threatens
18 Love
19 Repose
20 Bivouac
21 Aid
25 Disturb
28 Seize
29 Conjunction
30 Italian coin
31 Murmurs softly
32 Preposition
33 Italian particle often used in English
35 Far
37 Preposition
38 Heavy cord
40 Pertaining to square area
42 Body of land
44 Golden one
46 Before
47 Joyed
49 Italian corn-meal cake
52 Rustic
54 Spice
55 Reply
58 Railer
62 War method
63 Things
65 Shouted
67 Against
68 Optical instrument
73 One who utilizes
74 3.14159
75 Strainedly
76 Musical note
77 Symbol for copper
78 Skin disease
79 Roman emperor
81 Conjunction
83 Precious stone
85 Masticate
86 Stands even with
87 Positive command
89 Antillean island
91 Numeral adverb
92 Loving
94 Compound of oxygen and nitrogen
96 Ordered
97 Beverage
98 Organ of public information
99 Written pages (abbr.)


VERTICAL

 1 Indian magical plant
 2 Groups of electrons
 3 Bodily
 4 Ordinary
 5 Suffix, pertaining to
 6 Affirmative
 7 Brown
 8 Printer’s measure
 9 Part of verb “to be”
10 Looks evilly
11 Pertaining to clothes
12 Body of water
13 Writing rest
14 Make of automobile
17 Let stand
22 Wait
23 Ireland
24 Sense
25 Frighten
26 Species of sound
27 Greek letter
34 Closed curve
36 Lateness
37 Man’s nickname
39 Thrust forth
40 Mix
41 Address
43 Dutch coins
45 Prefix, from
48 Behold
50 Measure of weight
51 Conjunction
52 Wager
53 Heroine in Spenser
55 Indian princess
56 Condition
57 Mixed type
59 Negative
60 Bull-shaped
61 Bar
62 Cereal
63 Make over
64 Odor
66 Drawn
69 Engrave
70 Learning, knowledge (obs.)
71 Prefix, pertaining to oil
72 Fire
77 Intrigue
78 Seed of oak
80 Reed
82 Monetary penalties
84 Mountain lion
88 Ones
90 Plunge
93 Pronoun
94 Conjunction
95 Sun-god
96 Prefix, out of









PUZZLE NO. 32

HIC LABOR HIC OPUS EST

By Neophyte


This erudite contribution comes from an old-time puzzler who is one of
the experts on ingenuities. He does not hesitate to delve in the
darkest corners of the dictionary for words to fill his pattern.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   |     | 4   | 5   | 6   |#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 7   | 8   |     |     |     |#####| 9   |     |     | 10  | 11  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 12  |     |     |     |     |#####| 13  |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 15  |     |     |     |     | 16  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 19  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 20  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  | 22  | 23  | 24  |     |#####|#####|#####| 25  | 26  | 27  | 28  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 29  |     |     |     |#####| 30  |#####| 31  |#####| 32  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 33  |     |     |     | 34  |     |#####| 35  | 36  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 37  |     |     |     |     |#####| 38  |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 39  |     |     |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####| 41  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 A hybrid animal
 7 A kind of monoplane, originally designed by an Austrian
 9 Cultivated
12 A Knight of the Round Table
13 To march on
14 Three-banded armadillos of S. A.
15 One who edits
17 To stand between
18 French artist
19 A colorless liquid
20 A place to sleep in
21 To demolish
25 Upper part of a hat
29 Heroine of Charlotte Bronte novel
32 To instigate
33 To predestine
35 Sets again
37 Encircles
38 To get up
39 First eight lines of a sonnet
40 A guest at dinner
41 Hurries


VERTICAL

 1 A Spanish copper coin
 2 Biblical name
 3 Stretched tight
 4 In pursuit of
 5 To fatten
 6 An alloy, used in cheap jewelry
 7 Relating to type
 8 To adjudge
10 To drive an auto
11 Amusement
14 A kind of pack saddle
16 Hunts again
22 Slowly
23 Pertaining to India
24 Lack
26 A dried fruit
27 Fat
28 Water (obs.)
30 The present month (abbr. pl.)
31 Swap
34 Notion
36 Where the River Shannon flows









PUZZLE NO. 33

A SERRATE SYZYGY

By Marcam


Another of Marcam’s masterpieces, somewhat simpler of solution than
her other effort. But not childishly easy; Marcam finds some stiff
definitions still for interested minds to unravel.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\| 1   |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\| 2   |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\| 3   |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\| 4   |     | 5   |\\\\\| 6   |     | 7   |\\\\\| 8   |     | 9   |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\| 10  |     |     |     |#####| 11  |     |     |#####| 12  |     |     | 13  |\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 14  |     |#####| 15  |     | 16  |#####|     |#####| 17  |     |     |#####| 18  | 19  |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  |     |     | 21  |#####| 22  |     | 23  |     | 24  |     |     |#####| 25  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 26  |     |     | 27  |     |     |     |#####| 28  |     |     | 29  |     |     |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|#####| 30  |     |     |#####| 31  | 32  |     |#####| 33  |     |     |#####|\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 34  | 35  |#####| 36  |     | 37  |#####|     |#####| 38  |     |     |#####| 39  | 40  |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 41  |     |     |     |     |#####| 42  |     |     |     |     |#####| 43  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 44  |     |#####| 45  | 46  |     |#####|     |#####| 47  | 48  |     |#####| 49  |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|#####| 50  |     |     |#####| 51  |     | 52  |#####| 53  |     | 54  |#####|\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 55  | 56  |     |     |     | 57  |     |#####| 58  | 59  |     |     |     | 60  | 61  |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 62  |     |     |     |#####| 63  |     |     | 64  |     |     |     |#####| 65  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\| 66  |     |#####| 67  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 68  |     | 69  |#####| 70  |     |\\\\\|
|\\\\\|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\| 71  | 72  |     |     |#####| 73  |     | 74  |#####| 75  |     | 76  |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\| 77  |     |     |\\\\\| 78  |     |     |\\\\\| 79  |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|     |     |     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|     |\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|\\\\\|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 4 Garden plat
 6 To pull along after
 8 Sack
10 Alarm
11 Be indebted to
12 A savage animal
14 The man
15 A cup that cheers
17 Wager
18 Otherwise
20 Frame to support a coffin
22 Applaud
25 A form of ice
26 Stutter
28 Morally improved
30 A dish made with pastry
31 It is so
33 Males or females collectively
34 A parent
36 What the United States is supposed to be
38 The woman
39 Chief deity of historical Egypt
41 Righteous
42 Invest
43 Pulls
44 The thing
45 To exercise power
47 To mimic
49 You
50 A unit
51 Fuss
53 To supply weapons
55 Effusively sentimental
58 Course
62 Hypocrisy
63 Ingenuous
65 To drudge
66 Accomplish
67 Poem
68 To drink little by little
70 In that way
71 A notorious fiddler
73 Gone by
75 To offer for sale
77 Genus homo
78 Stepped rapidly
79 The essential person


VERTICAL

 1 Pound
 2 Cloth for wiping
 3 To stay for
 4 Exist
 5 Visionary person
 6 In the direction of
 7 Ourselves
 8 Disfigurement
 9 Proceed
10 Ends of stockings
13 Not any
14 Belonging to him
16 A very little
17 To command
19 A measure of distance
21 Knock
23 Call out
24 Bronze or copper
25 A half dozen
27 Inland
29 Sources of supply
32 Finished
34 Hawaiian food
35 Skill
37 Still
38 Wave
39 A beam
40 Solemn wonder
46 Pale green
48 Unresisting
50 Forth
51 An insect
52 Unclose
54 Chart
55 Insane
56 Presently
57 Wrath
59 Donkey
60 Joyful
61 Goddess of Dawn
64 Lawful
67 Spoken
69 Wooden or metal pins
72 Type measure
73 A measure of area
74 Over and in contact with
76 A veto









PUZZLE NO. 34

FIVE SPOTS AND RAYS

By R. B. MacMullin, Jr.


Good interlock, but a number of unkeyed letters. These are apt to try
the ingenuity of the solver.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   |#####| 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   |     |#####| 9   | 10  | 11  |     | 12  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 13  |     |     | 14  |#####| 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  | 18  |#####| 19  |     |     | 20  |     |     |     | 21  |     |     |     |#####| 22  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 23  |     | 24  |#####| 25  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 26  |     |     |#####| 27  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 28  |     |     | 29  |#####| 30  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 32  |     |     | 33  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 34  |     | 35  |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 36  |#####| 37  |     |     |     |     | 38  |#####| 39  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 40  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 41  | 42  |     |#####|     |#####| 43  |     | 44  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 45  | 46  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 48  |     |     |#####| 49  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 50  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 51  |     |     |     | 52  |#####|     |#####| 53  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 54  | 55  |     | 56  |     |     |#####| 57  |     | 58  |     | 59  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 60  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 61  |#####| 62  |     |     |     |     | 63  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 64  |     |     |     |#####| 65  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 66  |     |     | 67  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 68  |     |     |#####| 69  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 70  |     | 71  |#####| 72  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 73  |     |#####| 74  |     |     |     | 75  |     | 76  |     |     |     | 77  |#####| 78  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 79  |     |     |     |#####| 80  |     |     |#####| 81  |     |     | 82  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 83  |     |     |     |     |#####| 84  |     |     |     |     |#####| 85  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Vessel used for assaying gold
 5 Tertiary
 9 Coral island
13 Rainbow
15 Unity
16 Asterisk
17 God of sunshine
19 Discernment
22 Near
23 Yale
25 Seize
26 Tip
27 Fear
28 Melody
30 Snake
31 Used for bacterial culture
32 Plaster
34 Force times distance
37 Charcoal
39 Stag’s horn
41 Australian ostrich
43 Evening
45 Dyne centimeter
47 Tint
48 Pedal digit
49 Negro
50 Greek exclamation
51 Decoration
53 Devoured
54 Steering lever
57 Hot egg-nog
60 Linear
62 Scottish
64 Eternity
65 A fatty acid
66 Weaving machine
68 Homo
69 Herself
70 Metal-bearing rock
72 No
73 One
74 Necessity
78 Note on diatonic scale
79 Speculator who sells
80 Yes (Fr.)
81 Raised platform
83 Iron
84 Armored
85 Indivisibility


VERTICAL

 1 Sign of omission
 2 3.1416
 3 Mistake
 4 Legal security
 6 Pig
 7 Inform
 8 Brazilian coin
 9 Indivisible particle
10 Brown
11 Gold
12 Metric unit of volume
14 Sacred beetle
16 Noiseless
18 Sulfate of aluminum
20 King of the fairies
21 Natural ability
22 Absent
24 Insertion of virus
27 Collection
29 Epoch
31 Metric land measure
33 Grief
35 Planetary orbit
36 A nut
38 Saltpeter
39 In a heap
40 Heron
42 Minor (mus.)
44 Deity
46 Steep flax
51 Molten
52 A saying
55 Hostelry
56 Weir
58 Religious
59 45 inches
60 Scrawny
61 Void space
63 Common fuel
64 Accumulate
67 Farinaceous
69 Wax impression
71 Eldest son of Isaac
74 Born
75 Because of
76 Equivocation
77 Wickedness
79 Exist
82 Another note on the diatonic scale









PUZZLE NO. 35

A SLOTTED OBLONG

By Marion Hague


Splendid corner solids and easy central islands. Good words. A nice one
to solve at leisure.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   |#####| 10  | 11  | 12  |     |#####| 13  | 14  | 15  | 16  | 17  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 18  |     |     |     |     | 19  |#####| 20  |     |     |#####| 21  |     |     |#####| 22  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 23  |     |     |     |     |     | 24  |#####| 25  |     | 26  |     |     |#####| 27  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 28  |     |     |     |#####| 29  |     |     |     |     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  | 32  | 33  |#####| 34  |     |     | 35  |     |#####|     |#####| 36  | 37  |     |     |     |#####| 38  | 39  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 40  |     | 41  |#####| 42  |     |     |#####| 43  |     | 44  |#####| 45  |     |     |#####| 46  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |     |     |     | 48  |     |     |#####| 49  |     |     |     | 50  |#####| 51  |     | 52  |     |     |     | 53  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 54  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 55  |     |     |#####| 56  |     | 57  |#####| 58  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|#####| 59  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 60  | 61  | 62  | 63  |     | 64  |#####| 65  |     |     |#####| 66  |     |     |#####| 67  |     | 68  | 69  | 70  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 71  |     |     |     |     |     | 72  |#####| 73  |     | 74  |     |     |#####| 75  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 76  |     |     |#####| 77  |     | 78  |#####| 79  |     |     |#####| 80  |     |     |#####| 81  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 82  |     |     |#####| 83  |     |     |     | 84  |#####|     |#####| 85  |     |     |     | 86  |#####| 87  |     | 88  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 89  |     |     |     |#####| 90  | 91  |     | 92  |     |#####| 93  |     |     | 94  |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 95  | 96  | 97  |     |     |     |     |#####| 98  |     |     |     |     |#####| 99  |     |     |     | 100 | 101 |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 102 |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 103 |     |     |#####| 104 |     | 105 |#####| 106 |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 107 |     |     |     |     |#####| 108 |     |     |     |#####| 109 |     |     |     |#####| 110 |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Foot-gear
 6 Every
10 Float
13 The smallest amount
18 The floor of a fireplace
20 Also
21 A kettle
22 One who carries something
23 Items of record
25 Pertaining to a pole
27 To pass from one place to another
28 To break short
29 Exhausted
30 Jewel
31 Rule established by authority
34 Clan
36 Hostelry
38 Extremity
40 Domestic animal
42 Instrument used to operate a lock
43 Snare
45 Color
46 Bustle
47 Marks made by folding
49 Sort of skeleton found in the sea
51 Striking gently
54 Piece of instruction
55 Sort of preserved fruit
56 Pouch
58 Epistle
59 To enliven
60 Body of land surrounded by water
65 Hastened
66 An edge
67 Rapacious bird
71 To wind, as a brook
73 Burdened
75 Small dagger
76 To set free of
77 Horse
79 To allow
80 Co-relative of “neither”
81 Period of time
82 A possessive pronoun
83 A delicious drink
85 Arbor
87 A measure of length
89 Entrance
90 Machine which gives motion
93 At any time
95 Tells
98 A variety of quartz
99 Dwells
102 Fastened
103 Bond
104 Tag
106 Recollect
107 Older
108 The fruit of the pine tree
109 Lyric poems
110 An aromatic herb


VERTICAL

 1 Hard covering
 2 Female fowl
 3 Grain
 4 Sins
 5 Provide for meagrely
 7 Near
 8 Thicket
 9 Metal or wooden band
10 Short space of time
11 Merit
12 Neuter pronoun
13 According to law
14 A nobleman
15 A Southern constellation
16 Fixed
17 Inclination
19 Listen
22 Having two feet
24 Sees
26 A bar of metal for raising weight
27 Sacred musical composition
32 Land measure
33 Troubles
35 Beside
37 Otherwise
38 To prepare for publication
39 Not any
41 Part of verb “to be”
43 Existing only in name
44 A silk used for upholstering
46 Expert
47 Demand
48 Whole
49 Artificial waterway
50 High school subject
52 Delicious nut
53 Great
55 Receptacle
57 Precious stone
61 Dry
62 Home of a wild beast
63 A conjunction
64 Indicated
67 Always
68 To recline
69 Anxiety
70 Spoken
72 Runs swiftly
74 A triangular piece of land at the mouth of a river
75 Potency
78 To depart
80 Negative
82 Domestic animal
83 To supply food or amusement
84 Furiously
85 A food
86 Set again
88 Fine lace
89 Strong wind
91 Sort of molding
92 Common name of old German emperors
94 Wealthy
96 Soft finned fish
97 Boy
100 Span of twenty-four hours
101 Kind of tree
103 Forward
105 Exist









PUZZLE NO. 36

AN HOUR GLASS

By Mrs. Henry Wolf


The constructor must have turned her hour glass several times while
she was building this hour glass. It presents beautiful masses of
interlocks.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |     | 6   |#####| 7   | 8   | 9   |#####| 10  |     | 11  | 12  | 13  | 14  | 15  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 16  |     |     |     |     |#####| 17  | 18  |     |     |     | 19  |     |#####| 20  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     |     |     |#####| 22  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | 23  |#####| 24  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 25  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 26  |     |     |#####| 27  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 28  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 29  |     |     |     | 30  |#####|     |#####| 31  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 32  |     |     |#####| 33  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 34  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 35  |     |     | 36  |#####|     |#####| 37  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 38  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 39  | 40  |     | 41  |#####| 42  |     |     |#####| 43  |     | 44  |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 45  |     | 46  |     |     |     |     | 47  |#####|     |#####| 48  |     |     |     |     | 49  |     | 50  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 51  |     |     |#####| 52  |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 53  | 54  |     | 55  |     | 56  |     |     |#####| 57  |#####| 58  |     | 59  |     | 60  |     | 61  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 62  |     |     |     |#####| 63  |     | 64  |#####| 65  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 66  |     | 67  |     |#####|     |#####| 68  |     |     |     | 69  |#####|     |#####| 70  | 71  |     | 72  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 73  |     |     |#####| 74  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 75  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 76  |     |     | 77  |#####|     |#####| 78  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 79  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 80  |     |     |     |     |     | 81  |#####| 82  |     |     |#####| 83  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 84  |     |     |     |#####| 85  |     | 86  |     |     |     | 87  |     |     |#####| 88  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 89  |     |     |     | 90  |#####| 91  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 92  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 93  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 94  |     |     |#####| 95  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Definite
 7 Cymbals used by Hindu dancers
10 Declares
16 Vigilant
17 Publication
20 Manifest
21 Plateau
22 17th century article of dress
24 Concept
25 Confederations of territory
26 Nightfall
27 Operator of cotton cleaning machine
28 Restrain
29 Belonging to Ireland
31 Conveyed
32 Insect
33 Bloomed again
34 Scotch for no
35 Stride
37 Silenced
38 Agitate
39 Lyric poems
42 Title
43 Half
45 Laundry implement
48 One who lives only for pleasure
51 Nautical diary
52 Clamor
53 Delivered
58 Entanglers
62 Insects
63 Wicked
65 Skin disease
66 Defense
68 Premise
70 Plunge
73 Previous
74 Quarrel
75 Anger
76 Performs
78 Unsympathetically
79 Irritated
80 Harangues
82 One of many
83 Helmsman
84 Employer
85 Aversions
88 Liquid measure
89 Prepared
91 Share
92 A relative
93 Regards
94 Assent
95 Feared


VERTICAL

 1 Likeness producers
 2 Rudimentary
 3 Postponement
 4 Educate
 5 There
 6 Yields
 7 Afraid
 8 Tendency to revert to type
 9 One who issues permits
10 Again
11 Therefore
12 Ills
13 Returning (rare.)
14 Wooden pegs
15 Beginner
18 Accomplish
19 Exclamation
22 Separater
23 Matured
29 Shade tree
30 Turf
36 Utensil
38 Err
40 Couch
41 Parts of shoes
43 Medicinal plant
44 Grieve
45 Distant
46 Total
47 Bow
48 Belonging to him
49 Anger
50 Contraction of “it is”
54 Conjurors
55 Corrode
56 Bombastic
57 Charm
59 Salutes
60 Guided
61 Homage
63 Wilful damage to ship by mariners
64 Separation of parts previously joined
66 Characteristic
67 Refuge
68 Resting place
69 Pen
71 Made like ivory
72 Exercised
77 Atlantic right whale
79 Brown pigment
81 Tastes
83 Deliver
86 This way
87 Toward
90 3rd person plural
92 Nor









PUZZLE NO. 37

DECORATION

By Anna J. Munro


A good deal of black, but very ornamental. The center, with its
outreaching arms, is well built.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   |     | 3   | 4   | 5   |     |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   |     | 10  | 11  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 12  |     |     |#####| 13  |     |     |#####| 14  |#####| 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     | 17  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 18  |     |#####| 19  |#####| 20  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 21  |#####| 22  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 23  |     | 24  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 25  |     | 26  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  | 28  |#####| 29  |     |     |#####| 30  |     | 31  |#####| 32  |     |     |#####| 33  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     | 35  |     |     |#####| 36  |     |     |     | 37  |#####| 38  |     | 39  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |     |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |     |     | 42  |#####| 43  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 44  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 45  |     | 46  |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 47  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 48  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 49  |#####|     |#####| 50  |     |     |#####| 51  |#####| 52  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 53  |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 54  | 55  |     | 56  |#####| 57  |     | 58  |     | 59  |     |     |#####| 60  |     | 61  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 62  |     |     |     | 63  |#####| 64  |     |     |     |     |#####| 65  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 66  |     |#####| 67  |     | 68  |#####| 69  |     |     |#####| 70  |     |     |#####| 71  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 72  |     |     |     | 73  |#####|     |#####| 74  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 75  | 76  |#####|     |#####| 77  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 78  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 79  |     | 80  |#####| 81  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 82  |     | 83  |#####| 84  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 85  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 86  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 River boundary, ancient Italy
 6 Ladies small umbrella
12 To weaken
13 A sailor
15 An alcoholic drink
16 Cotton fabric
18 Part of verb “to be”
20 To demand the return of
22 Act
23 Disorder
25 Portions of medicine
27 Part of verb “to be”
29 Equip with weapons
30 A quick blow
32 Eggs of fish
33 Indefinite article
34 Separately
36 Last
38 A feature
40 Corn weed
41 Pertaining to a poet of Greece
43 Faction
44 Girl’s woolen hat
45 A fish
47 An artist of colors
48 Forwards by post
50 Numeral
52 Recent
54 Bits of materials
57 Statesman
60 City in Italy
62 Interior
64 Alarm
65 Malicious crime
66 Near
67 By way of
69 Before
70 Not bright
71 Parent
72 Cuttlefish
74 Fathers
75 Behold
77 Move
78 Exist
79 Organ of head
81 A foundation
82 Devoured
84 Strike
85 Retreated
86 Do without; refrain from


VERTICAL

 1 To butt
 2 Above
 3 Pronoun
 4 Billiard shot
 5 Raw metals
 7 Dry
 8 Hearsay
 9 Part of verb “to be”
10 Either
11 Guided
12 Glut
14 Purer
17 Terse
19 Part
21 Noblemen
24 Skill
26 Drunkard
28 Mineral spring
30 Edge
31 State of equality
33 Help
35 Accuse
36 Abets
37 Liberty
39 Purposeless
41 Loathes
42 A member of solar system
44 Powerful explosive
46 A bird of crow family
49 Easily crumbled
51 Gazers
53 Oriental tower
55 Insect
56 Separate
58 Playing card
59 Rage
60 Equipped
61 Vortex
63 Tear
65 Tune
68 Directed
70 Systematic rules for eating
73 Military assistant
74 To pierce
76 Used in small boats
78 A box or place
80 In regard to
81 Part of verb “to be”
83 Latin for “and”
84 Exclamation









PUZZLE NO. 38

BLACK BEETLE

By Fred L. Kleinschmidt


This constructor blocked out a pretty fair beetle form. The center is
a little loose.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |#####| 6   | 7   |     |#####| 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  |     | 12  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 13  |     |     |     | 14  |#####|     |#####| 15  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 16  | 17  |     |#####|#####| 18  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 19  | 20  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     |     | 22  |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 23  | 24  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 25  |     |     |#####| 26  |     | 27  |     | 28  |     | 29  |#####| 30  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 31  |     |#####| 32  |     |     |     |     |#####| 33  |     |     |     |     |#####| 34  | 35  |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 36  |     |#####|     |#####| 37  | 38  |     |#####|     |#####| 39  | 40  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 41  |     |     | 42  |#####| 43  |#####|     |#####| 44  |#####| 45  |     |     | 46  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |     |     |#####| 48  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 49  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 50  |     | 51  |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 52  | 53  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 54  |#####| 55  |     |#####| 56  |#####| 57  |     | 58  |#####| 59  |#####| 60  |     |#####| 61  |
|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 62  | 63  |#####| 64  |     |     | 65  |     |#####| 66  | 67  |     |     |     |#####| 68  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 69  | 70  |     |#####| 71  |     |     | 72  |     |     |     |#####| 73  | 74  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 75  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 76  |     |     |     | 77  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 78  |     |     |#####|#####| 79  |     |     |     |     |     | 80  |#####|#####| 81  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 82  | 83  | 84  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 85  |     | 86  | 87  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 88  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 89  |     |     |#####| 90  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Intellectual dullness
 6 A resting place
 8 The hair of the Angora goat
13 Bracing
15 Hairy appendages
16 Come together
18 Pertaining to Mars
19 A female bird
21 Drinking vessel
23 Threads that guide through a maze
25 A vase with feet
26 Barren
30 Single
31 Note of scale
32 To vanquish
33 Concise
34 As
36 Us
37 An obstinate person
39 As
41 A game of chance
45 General term for followers of theory
47 To corrode
48 Lessened
49 A soft white metal
50 To take out
52 Aid
55 Regarding
57 Madness
60 Conjunction
62 Near
64 Primp
66 Exposes
68 Towards
69 Consumed
71 To dignify
73 Be indebted to
75 Carries
76 Scented
78 Sick
79 Wearisome
81 Hebrew prophet
82 Anxious
85 An indestructible unit
88 Instruction
89 A lair
90 A drink of hot milk curdled with liquor


VERTICAL

 1 Problems in arithmetic
 2 To speak
 3 River in Italy
 4 Forward
 5 Edge
 7 One who consumes
 8 Male
 9 Preposition
10 A personal pronoun
11 Pale
12 Flees
14 The air
15 A tree
17 Handbag
20 Female sheep
22 To deduce
24 A pale yellowish clay
26 A male child
27 Period of time
28 Possessive pronoun
29 To make a mistake
31 Personal pronoun
35 Over and above
36 A common liquid
38 Jeer
40 Fur-bearing animal
41 Hobby
42 A lyric poem
43 To freeze
44 Utilize
45 Historic mountain
46 To rest
51 Diseased person
53 Chest
54 A parent
56 A golf term
57 An hotel
58 To recede
59 Metalliferous earth
61 To act
63 An Oriental weight
65 To go into
67 A book for pictures
68 To inform
70 Stories
72 To think
74 Useless plants
75 A bank-note
77 Shade
79 A number
80 To soak in
83 So
84 To depart
86 Negative
87 To wit









PUZZLE NO. 39

FACILE EST DECENSUS AVERNI

By Cerberus


Cerberus was a three-faced dog, and that is what you may think of the
progenitors of this bark after you’ve tried it. Averni (which does not
mean Arverne) is the unkeyed centre-piece.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   |     | 3   |#####| 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   |     |     | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  |#####| 12  |     | 13  | 14  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  |     |#####|     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 17  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 18  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 19  |     | 20  |     |     |     |#####| 21  | 22  |#####| 23  |     |     | 24  |     | 25  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 26  |     |     |     |     |#####| 27  |     | 28  |     |     | 29  |     |     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 31  |     |     | 32  |#####| 33  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 34  |     |     |     |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 35  | 36  |     |#####| 37  |     | 38  |#####| 39  |     |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |#####| 41  | 42  | 43  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 44  |     |     | 45  |#####| 46  |     | 47  |     |#####|#####| 48  | 49  |     |     |#####| 50  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 51  |     |     |     | 52  |#####| 53  |     |     |#####|#####| 54  |     |     |#####| 55  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  |     |#####| 57  |     | 58  |     |     |#####| 59  | 60  |#####| 61  |     | 62  |     |     |#####| 63  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 64  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 65  |     |     | 66  |#####|#####| 67  |     |     | 68  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 69  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 70  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 71  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 72  | 73  |#####| 74  |     |     | 75  | 76  |#####| 77  |     |#####| 78  | 79  |     |     |     |#####| 80  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 81  |     | 82  |     |     |#####| 83  |     | 84  |#####|#####| 85  |     |     |#####| 86  |     | 87  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 88  |     |     |     |#####| 89  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 90  |     |     | 91  |#####| 92  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 93  |     |     |#####| 94  |     |     |#####| 95  | 96  | 97  |     |#####| 98  |     | 99  |#####| 100 |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 101 | 102 |     |     |#####| 103 |     |     |     |     | 104 |#####| 105 |     | 106 |     |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 107 |     |     |     |     |#####| 108 |     |     |     |     |     |     | 109 |#####| 110 |     |     |     | 111 |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 112 |     |     | 113 |     |     |#####| 114 |     |#####| 115 |     | 116 |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 117 | 118 |#####|     |#####| 119 |     |     | 120 |#####|#####| 121 |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 122 |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 123 |     |     |     |#####| 124 |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 125 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Extremities
 4 Unchangeable
12 A metal
15 Concerning
16 Digits
17 Variety of wood
18 Therefore
19 Shores
21 Thus
23 Catkins
26 Fruit of common tree
27 And so forth
30 Obliterate
31 Things of secondary importance
33 Sportmen’s lodges (Scot.)
34 A blow
35 Grassy field
37 Part of “to be”
39 Ecclesiastical contribution box
40 Strike
41 Bleak
44 Unoccupied
46 Container for liquids
48 Rip
50 Hindu mendicant
51 Designation
53 Annoy
54 Common breakfast food
55 Lacquer
56 Latin, and
57 Roman magistrate
59 Behold
61 Pert. to
63 Road (abbr.)
64 Eager
65 Indian Cult
67 Black
69 Companion
70 Organs of hearing
71 Legendary Queen of Carthage
72 Toward
74 To eulogize
77 Myself
78 Orange-brown
80 Disordered type
81 Mammal milk bag
83 Toss gently
85 Rational animal
86 Mournful sound
88 Collected mass of eggs (pl.)
89 Kind of fish
90 Engrave
92 Vocal music
93 Before, prefix
94 Head covering
95 Requirement
98 Secreted
100 Possessive pronoun
101 Equal
103 Golf term
105 Fermented drink
107 Severe
108 Fossil lizards
110 African antelope
112 Vend again
114 Latin for “and”
115 Compound of nitrogen
117 Inside
119 Earth
121 Open hall
122 Elevated
123 An injury
124 Association
125 Melt


VERTICAL

 1 Roman garment
 2 Allowing that
 3 Tale
 4 Belonging to it
 5 Missive
 6 Article of apparel (pl.)
 7 Like
 8 By
 9 Wild animal (pl.)
10 A priest
11 Piece out
12 Prefix, within
13 Bone
14 A feature
19 A metallic element
20 Again
21 Prophet
22 Pert. to the ear
24 Lizard
25 Persian ruler
28 Form of limestone
29 Stimulate
32 Juice of a tree
34 Form of male address
35 Written or printed productions
36 Revise
38 To be impelled by wind
40 Old women
42 Substance derived from seaweed
43 Meanderings
45 Lifts
47 Anger
49 Self
50 Captain of Arab vessel (pl.)
52 Literary compiler
55 Shifting sail
58 Conception
59 Kind of soil
60 Giant
62 Man of ancient Asiatic race
64 Form of “to be”
65 You
66 Intransitive verb
68 Word of negation
73 Smell
75 Common woman
76 Measure of weight
78 Perched
79 Measure of length
80 To palpitate
82 More profound
84 African native race
85 Plural of medium
87 Egg-shaped (obs.)
89 Pitch
91 Pronoun
94 Domestic birds
96 Judicial circuit
97 Send forth
99 Wild animal
102 Upright
103 A dinner course
104 Boredom
106 Apart from
107 Utensil for roasting
108 Fruit of a shrub
109 Storehouse for grain
111 Thick liquid
113 Sprite
116 To prepare leather
118 Denial
120 Pronoun
121 Near
122 Plural pronoun









PUZZLE NO. 40

99​-9⁄10 PER CENT PURE

By Kross Korner Knut


They don’t come much better than this one. K.K.K. is an expert of
the first water and knows how to put words together in a fascinating
pattern.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |     |#####| 6   | 7   |     | 8   | 9   |#####| 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  | 14  |     | 15  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |#####| 17  |     |     |#####| 18  |     | 19  |#####| 20  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  | 22  |     |     |     |#####| 23  |     |     |     |#####| 24  |     |     | 25  |#####| 26  |     |     | 27  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 28  |     |     |#####| 29  | 30  |     |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |     | 32  |     |#####| 33  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     |     | 35  |#####| 36  |     |     |     |#####| 37  |#####| 38  |     |     |     |#####| 39  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |     |#####| 41  | 42  |     |     |     |#####| 43  |     | 44  |#####| 45  |     |     | 46  |     |#####| 47  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 48  |     |     |     |#####| 49  | 50  |     |     |     | 51  |     |#####| 52  |     |     | 53  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 54  |     |     |     |     | 55  |#####| 56  |     |     |     |     |#####| 57  |     |     |     |     | 58  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 59  |     |     |     |     |#####| 60  | 61  |     |#####|     |#####| 62  | 63  |     |#####| 64  |     |     |     | 65  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 66  |     |     |     |#####| 67  |     |     |#####| 68  |     | 69  |#####| 70  |     | 71  |#####| 72  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 73  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 74  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 75  | 76  | 77  | 78  |#####| 79  |     |     |#####| 80  | 81  |     |#####| 82  |     |     |#####| 83  | 84  | 85  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 86  |     |     |     | 87  |#####| 88  |     | 89  |#####|     |#####| 90  |     |     |#####| 91  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 92  |     |     |     | 93  |     |#####| 94  | 95  |     | 96  |     |#####| 97  | 98  |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 99  |#####| 100 |     |     |     |#####| 101 |     |     |     |     |     | 102 |#####| 103 |     |     |     |#####| 104 |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 105 | 106 |#####| 107 |     |     | 108 |     |#####| 109 |     |     |#####| 110 | 111 |     |     |     |#####| 112 |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 113 |     | 114 |     |#####| 115 |     |     | 116 |#####|     |#####| 117 |     |     |     |#####| 118 | 119 |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 120 |     |     |#####| 121 |     |     |     |     | 122 |#####| 123 |     |     |     |     | 124 |#####| 125 |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 126 |     |#####| 127 |     |#####| 128 |     |     |     |#####| 129 |     |     |     |#####| 130 | 131 |     |     |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 132 |     |     | 133 |#####| 134 |     |     |#####| 135 |     |     |#####| 136 |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 137 |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 138 |     |     |     |     |#####| 139 |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Self contradiction
 6 Competitor
10 Restrict
16 Holly
17 Couch
18 Dance step
20 Froth
21 Crow-like bird
23 Solitary
24 Smooth
26 Condition
28 Prayer
29 Hard blows
31 Infirm
33 Caoutchouc
34 Acquires
36 Again
38 Underanged
39 Completed
40 Either
41 Flavor
43 Cloud
45 Annoy
47 Any
48 Slant
49 Divide proportionately
52 An auction
54 Dormant
56 Obliterate
57 Austere
59 Trite
60 Guided
62 Consume
64 Retorts
66 Possessive pronoun
67 Comrade
68 Precious stone
70 Small cake
72 Weird
73 Fruit
74 Eludes
75 Table-land
79 Fondle
80 Shallow vessel
82 Place
83 Medley
86 Episode
88 Decade
90 Bog
91 Endured
92 Diners
94 The end
97 German
100 Baked clay
101 Humming
103 Wagon travel
105 Printing measure
107 Climate
109 Insect
110 Different one
112 Exclamation
113 Bribes
115 Cabal
117 Ancestor
118 Proof-reading direction
120 Wrath
121 Inner part of bottom of a shoe
123 Penetrates
125 Metallic rock
126 Restrain
128 Remain
129 Learning
130 Tall, slim structure
132 Opposite of aloft
134 Before
135 Behold
136 Uncouth
137 Metallic salts
138 Ether derived from oxygenated acid
139 A young seal


VERTICAL

 1 Model of excellence
 2 Short bolt
 3 Beverage
 4 Lairs
 5 Bovine quadruped
 6 Regenerate
 7 Important Roman dates
 8 Mimics
 9 Bathes
11 Concerning
12 Snout
13 Corpulent
14 Adult, mature insect
15 Rudiment
17 Nursery rhyme character
19 Legislative body
22 Affirm
23 Cotton fibre
25 Baseball team
27 Oceanic fish
30 Refuse
32 Let
35 Silences
37 State of mind, esp. of soldiers
39 Dele.
42 To the sheltered side
43 Pro
44 Aeriform fluid
46 Rescue
48 Ex-Emperor
50 Color
51 Golf requisite
53 Young eagle
54 Corroded
55 Worlds
57 Scholar
58 Spike
59 Chagrin
61 To raise the spirits
63 Humble
65 Ecclesiastic council
67 Baby food
68 Chasm
69 Humans
71 Lace
76 Close of day
77 Locate
78 Capers
81 Broad thoroughfare
83 Weasel-like fur-bearing animals
84 Behold
85 Compound of atoms and electrons
87 Relate
89 Neither
90 Baseball enthusiast
91 Certain
93 Govern
95 Canaille
96 Two-wheeled, one-seated vehicle
98 The upper air
99 In addition
101 Represent
102 Neck swelling
104 Provider
106 Greater
108 Church service
111 A cross
112 In this place
114 Leaf of a corolla
116 To stare fiercely
117 Grimace of contempt
119 An altar cloth
121 To smooth cloth or clothing
122 Orbs
123 Otherwise
124 Button for shirt front
127 Yale
131 Unusual
133 Us
136 Sun God









PUZZLE NO. 41

A WEST POINTER

By Corporal Arthur Baisch and Sergeant William M. Munroe


The army sends a neat design—and not an easy one. The interlocking is
good, and the occasional unkeyed letters are well supported by
cross-clues.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   |     |#####| 3   |#####| 4   | 5   | 6   |#####| 7   | 8   |     |#####| 9   |#####| 10  | 11  | 12  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  |     |     |#####| 14  |     | 15  |#####| 16  |     |     |     |     |#####| 17  |     |     |#####| 18  |     | 19  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  |     |     | 21  |#####| 22  |     | 23  |     |     |#####| 24  |     | 25  |     |     |#####| 26  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 27  |     | 28  |#####| 29  |     |     |     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 32  |     |     |     |     | 33  |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####| 34  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 35  |     | 36  |     | 37  | 38  |#####| 39  | 40  |     | 41  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 42  | 43  | 44  | 45  |     |     |     |#####| 46  |     |     |     |     |#####| 47  |     |     | 48  | 49  | 50  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 51  |     |     |#####|#####| 52  | 53  |     |     |#####| 54  |     | 55  |     |#####|#####| 56  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 57  |     |     |#####|#####| 58  |     |     |     |#####| 59  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 60  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 61  |     |     |     | 62  | 63  |#####|     |#####| 64  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 65  | 66  |     |     |     | 67  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 68  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 69  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 70  |     | 71  | 72  |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####| 73  |     | 74  | 75  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 76  |     |     |#####| 77  |     | 78  | 79  |#####| 80  | 81  |     | 82  |#####| 83  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 84  | 85  |     |     |#####| 86  |     |     |     |     |#####| 87  |     |     |     | 88  |#####| 89  |     | 90  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 91  |     |     |#####| 92  |     |     |#####| 93  |     |     |     |     |#####| 94  |     |     |#####| 95  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####| 96  |     |     |#####| 97  |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Duct
 4 Bird’s beak
 7 Assume
10 Steel-pointed mining  tool
13 Hunting shoe
14 Genus
16 Equity
17 Organ
18 Bituminous shale
20 Intermittent fever
22 Four-wheel truck supporting the front end of a locomotive
24 Coral isle
26 More or less
27 Pony
29 (In poker) stake put up
30 Rich vegetable mold
31 Energy
32 Combination of acetic acid with glycerine
34 Thick ointment of wax, etc.
35 Splendor
39 Wanton slaughter of unresisting game
42 Sickness
46 Pertaining to a foot
47 Error in printing or writing
51 Female rabbit
52 Mystic ornament worn by a Jewish high priest
54 Void
56 Attention
57 Period of time
58 Small cubes that know arithmetic
59 So be it
60 Floor covering
61 A mastiff
64 Grooved metal fastener
65 Specie of duck
68 Neuter verbal noun
69 Captivate
70 In great plenty
73 Petty officer in charge of stores
76 Wrath
77 Glacier ice
80 Prison
83 Tiny
84 An island (poetic)
86 Symbol
87 Ancient, bygone
89 Amount
91 Abroad
92 Crude, cold and damp
93 Claim of right
94 Fermenting vat
95 Sailor
96 Nonsense
97 Lair


VERTICAL

 1 Sink
 2 Sharp pointed
 3 Priestly vestment
 5 Revise
 6 Sauce, moisture
 7 Face of a clock
 8 Oil of roses
 9 Comrade
11 Anaconda
12 Barrier
13 Kind of hat
15 Hawaiian tree
17 Shade tree
19 Ancient hymn sung at matins
21 Taste
23 Small stinging insect
25 Kiln for drying hops
26 Title
28 Door of Masonic lodge
31 Wear
33 Blue titmouse
34 Cad
36 Ornamental knob
37 Narrative
38 Repair again
39 Austro-Hungarian Territory ruled by a Ban
40 Al2 K2 (SO4) + 24 H2O
41 Sorrow
43 Mental image
44 Forsaken
45 Meadow
48 Arial
49 Snug
50 Incite
53 Little stream
55 Ten armed cephalopod
61 Bath house
62 Monster
63 Move or stir
65 Kind of fish sauce
66 Boats’ company
67 Boat propelled by three
71 Cadence
72 Natural metal
74 Over
75 Flesh of animals
77 The present time
78 Prohibit
79 Utter
80 In archery; the bull’s eye
81 Sheltered side
82 To permit
85 Total
86 Headgear
88 Pile
90 Hit lightly









PUZZLE NO. 42

A CENTRAL SWASTIKA [1]

By Warren Hannaford


Small, but by no means so easy as it looks. The words that swirl around
the Swastika are splendidly interlocked.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   |     |#####|#####| 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   |     | 9   |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 10  |     |     |#####| 11  | 12  |#####| 13  |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  | 15  |     |#####| 16  | 17  |     |     | 18  |     |#####| 19  | 20  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     |#####|#####| 22  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 23  |     |
|     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 24  |     | 25  | 26  |     |     |#####|#####| 27  |     | 28  | 29  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 30  |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 32  |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####| 33  |     | 34  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 35  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####| 36  |#####| 37  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 38  |#####| 39  |     | 40  | 41  |     |#####| 42  | 43  |     |     |#####| 44  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 45  | 46  |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 47  |     |     |     | 48  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 49  |     |#####|#####| 50  |     | 51  | 52  |     |     |#####|#####| 53  |     |
|     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 54  |     | 55  |#####| 56  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 57  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 58  | 59  |     |#####| 60  |     |#####| 61  | 62  |     |     |     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 63  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####| 64  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


[1] The second square from the right, second row from the bottom,
should be black to correspond with the other corners.


HORIZONTAL

 1 Motion
 5 A barricade
10 Goddess of mischief
11 Disarranged type
13 Prefix, equal
14 Distend
16 Actors
19 A large bird
21 A measure of type
22 The solan goose
23 An exclamation
24 An arch
27 Combine with air
30 Pert. to atmosphere (comb. form)
31 Order
32 Time
33 A beverage
35 The egg of a small insect
37 Coarse cloth made from jute
39 An alarm
42 In another direction
45 Classes of two species
47 Hereditary
49 Regarding
50 The small white heron
53 Nickname for father
54 Design
56 Exclamation of disdain
57 A fish destitute of ventral fins
58 A short song
60 Belonging to me
61 A tree
63 Title of address (pl.)
64 Obliterates


VERTICAL

 1 The finest of Indian silk
 2 Scold
 3 And (French)
 4 Scanty
 6 Pigment from wood soot
 7 Roman weight equal to a pound
 8 Jutting rock
 9 Small bag filled with perfume
11 Incarcerate
12 Tavern
15 Curious scraps of literature
17 Agallochum
18 Disrupt
20 A grain
25 An adherent of the Zoroastrian religion
26 A heavy wooden mallet
28 A stem of a specie of palm
29 Quadruped of Madagascar
32 Each
34 Near by
36 A gentleman’s servant
38 Departure
40 An article used to expunge
41 Predatory incursion
43 Deteriorate
44 Hypothetical ape man
46 Contr. of evening
48 Mock
51 Highly finished work of art
52 Narrow beam of light
55 Assume
57 Square of a type body (pl.)
59 Trick
62 Sixth note of scale









PUZZLE NO. 43

NOT SO BLACK AS PAINTED

By Norman Kendy


Excellent center, but somewhat loose corner construction, passed,
however, under Mr. Gelett Burgess’ ruling that at least half the
letters of a word shall be included in other words.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   |     | 3   |     | 4   |     |#####| 5   | 6   |     | 7   |     | 8   |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 9   |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 10  |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 11  |     |     |     |     |     |     | 12  |#####| 13  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####| 14  |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 15  |     |     |     |#####| 16  | 17  |     |#####| 18  | 19  |     |#####| 20  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 21  |#####| 22  |     |     |     |     |#####| 23  |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 24  |     |     |#####| 25  | 26  |     |     |#####| 27  |     | 28  |     |#####| 29  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 30  | 31  |     |     |     |     |#####| 32  |     |     |     | 33  |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####| 34  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####| 35  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 36  |#####| 37  |     |     |     | 38  | 39  |#####| 40  | 41  |     |     |     | 42  |#####| 43  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 44  |     |     |#####| 45  |     |     |     |#####| 46  |     |     |     |#####| 47  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 48  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 49  |     |     |     |#####| 50  |     |     |#####| 51  |     |     |#####| 52  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####| 53  |#####|#####| 54  |     |     |#####|#####| 55  |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  |     |     |     |     |     | 57  |     |#####| 58  | 59  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 60  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 61  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Observes
 5 Opposes
11 Spicy
13 Erect
14 Egg cells
15 Luck
16 Sin
18 Garden product
20 Crustacea
22 Spartan magistrate
24 Number
25 Payments
27 To chance
29 Negative
30 Agile
32 Woman’s work
34 River (Spanish)
35 To mimic
37 Scold
40 Sharpshooter
44 Indispensable for animal life
45 English college
46 Corn meal bread
47 To be in debt
48 A Spanish horse
49 Noose
50 Theory
51 Ill-bred fellow
52 God
54 Friend (French)
56 Submerged continent
58 Grain warehouse
60 Penetrated
61 Industrial preservatory


VERTICAL

 2 Premature birth
 3 Dressed
 4 Testament character
 6 Orb
 7 Particle
 8 Amusing
 9 Textile
10 Causing excitement
12 Body
13 Old name for the blues
17 A dance
19 Largo lake
21 Lover
23 Seagoing person
26 Submarine
28 Country gallant
31 Anger
33 Born
36 Freight term
37 City of Churches
38 Clothes
39 Injections
40 Coin
41 Take notice
42 Automobile
43 Vaults
53 Poker term
55 Just quite
57 Frost
59 Pasture









PUZZLE NO. 44

FINE AND DANDY

By Julie D. Carder


A splendid example of what can be done in the waving of long and
intricate word patterns. The author is, as may be guessed, a fan
of long standing.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   |     |#####| 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  |     |#####| 11  | 12  | 13  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 14  |     |#####|#####|#####| 15  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 16  |     |
|     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  |     | 18  |#####| 19  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | 20  |#####| 21  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 22  |     |     |#####| 23  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 24  |     |     |#####| 25  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 26  |     |     | 27  |#####| 28  |     | 29  | 30  | 31  |     |     |#####| 32  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 33  |     |     |     | 34  |#####| 35  |     |     |     |     |#####| 36  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 37  |     |     |     |     | 38  |#####| 39  |     |     |#####| 40  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 41  |     |     |     | 42  |     |#####| 43  | 44  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####|#####|#####| 45  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 46  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|
|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |#####| 48  | 49  |     |     |     | 50  |#####| 51  |     |     |     | 52  | 53  |#####| 54  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 55  | 56  |     |     |     |     |#####| 57  | 58  |     |#####| 59  |     |     |     | 60  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 61  |     |     |     |     |#####| 62  |     |     |     | 63  |#####| 64  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  |     |     |     |#####| 66  |     |     |     |     |     | 67  |#####| 68  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 69  |     |     |#####| 70  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 71  |     | 72  |#####| 73  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 74  |     |     |#####| 75  |     |     | 76  | 77  | 78  |     |     |     |#####| 79  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 80  |     |#####|#####|#####| 81  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 82  |     |
|     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 83  |     |     |#####| 84  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 85  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Reserved
 3 According to value
11 Fulfil
14 Pronoun
15 Comfortable
16 The substantive verb
17 A land measure
19 Traveler’s bag
21 A room in a harem
22 A high hill
23 Entirely
24 That Japanese statesman
25 By
26 To become weary
28 A sounding instrument
32 A branch
33 Growing out
35 Wheat
36 East Indian climber
37 Animal coagulant
39 Conscious being
40 Wool fabric
41 A maiden
43 The tongue
45 Gratuity
46 A plant
48 Expressing pleasure
51 Corn meal mush
55 Dilatory
57 To fortify
59 Colored glass
61 Fidelity
62 Melodies
64 Invest with a fee
65 Tramp
66 A tapering mandrel
68 Force
69 Single
70 Electrical unit
71 An extinct bird
73 Point of the compass
74 Goddess of dawn
75 That which is recent
79 Of the Tartar race
80 What every woman adds
81 A vessel
82 In regard to
83 Still
84 An American lizard
85 A color


VERTICAL

 1 Deranges
 2 The leading lady
 4 Divides
 5 A scoundrel
 6 Serpent
 7 Sheltered side
 8 Many times
 9 Mildew on plants
10 Excite
12 An ancient puzzler
13 Chronicle of a year
18 Commission
19 Calcium
20 Depart
21 An Asiatic shrub
27 A volcano
29 Open space
30 Vehicle
31 Interested
32 Lord
34 Australian catfish
36 Elements of plants
38 Oriental weight (pl.)
40 Ditches
42 Turn to the right
44 Fate
47 Phonology
48 Emits fumes
49 Small amount
50 Defy
51 Biblical character
52 Arrive
53 Weird
54 Made tender
56 Disease of grape leaves
58 What Eve was made of
60 Stretching (old)
62 An arsenal
63 A son of Shem
66 Act of stealing
67 A worker in wool
70 Forward
72 Exist
76 Cup with four handles
77 The entire man
78 One who has extreme political views (slang)









PUZZLE NO. 45

A LINGUAL LABYRINTH

By Coutance


This effort contains one definition which comprises two words, but
the all-round excellence of the construction makes up for this
single deficiency.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |     | 5   | 6   |#####| 7   | 8   |     | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  |     |     |     |#####| 14  |     | 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |     |#####| 19  |#####| 20  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 21  |     |#####| 22  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 23  |     | 24  |#####| 25  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 26  |     |     |     | 27  |     | 28  |     |     |     | 29  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 30  |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |#####| 32  |     |     | 33  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     |#####| 35  |     | 36  |     |     |#####| 37  |     |     |#####| 38  | 39  |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 41  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 42  |     |#####| 43  |     |     |#####| 44  |     |     |     |     |#####| 45  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 46  | 47  |     |     |#####| 48  |     |     |#####| 49  |     | 50  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 51  |#####| 52  |     |     | 53  |     |     |     | 54  |     |     |     |#####| 55  |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  | 57  |#####| 58  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 59  |     |     |#####| 60  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 61  |     | 62  |#####|     |#####| 63  |     | 64  |     |     |#####| 65  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 66  |     |     | 67  |#####| 68  |     |     |     |     |#####| 69  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 70  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 71  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Otalgia
 7 Pimple
13 Soon
14 Cable-deck
16 Units
17 Rested
18 Terror
20 Insect
21 Printer’s measure
22 Prefix before
23 Child
25 Preposition
26 Novice
30 Bar
31 Permit
32 Change
34 Elevated railroad (abbr.)
35 Bone
37 Gypsy
38 Biblical name
40 State of ennui
41 Untruthfully
42 Exclamation used to frighten
43 Strike
44 The whole range
45 French article
46 Feline vocalism
48 Fastener
49 Social functions
52 Dust on roof of room (2 words)
56 Behold
58 Portuguese coin
59 Goddess of the dawn
60 Egyptian sun-god
61 Tool
63 Sweetheart
65 Article
66 Rare element
68 French leader assassinated by Charlotte Corday
69 Expanse
70 Gathered
71 Related to Muse of joy


VERTICAL

 1 Stand
 2 French Protectorate
 3 Decay
 4 Article
 5 Mountain in Arabia
 6 Before
 7 A capsule
 8 Above
 9 Preposition
10 Maiden symbolic of truth
11 Period of fast
12 To impede
15 Last of two
18 Arabian beast
19 Whorl
22 One who likes better
23 Preposition
24 Drivers
26 Symbol for Platinum
27 Astringent mineral substance
28 Pronoun
29 Railroad
30 Sailing vessel
33 Shouts
34 Slack
36 A pouting girl
37 An engine of war
39 Color
41 Tooth
44 Spicy root
47 On one string (Mus. abbr.)
48 Geometric function
50 Preposition
51 Vernacular
53 Chinese measure and weight
54 Extinction
55 Hymn
57 German river
60 A nandu
62 Collection of animals
63 Youth
64 Surface of fibers
65 Prefix, three
67 Greek letter
68 Pronoun
69 Italian particle









PUZZLE NO. 46

A HUNDRED PER CENTER

By R. and R. Williams


This is the simplest form for securing an all-over interlock with
no unkeyed letters. And the words are good!


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |#####|#####|#####| 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 9   |     |     |     |     | 10  |#####| 11  |     |     |     |     | 12  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  |     |     |#####| 14  |     | 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  |     |#####|#####|#####| 18  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 19  |     |
|     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  |     | 21  |#####| 22  |     |     |     | 23  |#####| 24  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 25  |     | 26  |     |     |#####| 27  |     | 28  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|#####| 29  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 30  |     |     |#####|#####|
|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 31  |     |     |     | 32  |#####| 33  |     |     |     | 34  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 35  |     |     |#####| 36  |     | 37  |     |     |#####| 38  |     | 39  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |     |#####|#####|#####| 41  |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 42  |     |
|     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 43  |     | 44  |#####| 45  |     |     |     | 46  |#####| 47  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 48  |     |     | 49  |     |     |#####| 50  |     | 51  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 52  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####| 53  |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Tread on
 5 A Biblical character
 9 Erstwhile meeting place
11 Recent
13 Employ
14 Musical instrument
16 Announce
17 An object
18 To dress up
19 Toward
20 Poetic abbreviation
22 A municipal power
24 Very dark
25 Passage
27 Sweet
29 Pull
30 Chum
31 Psychological phenomenon
33 Tree
35 Hurried
36 Girl’s name
38 Pointed instrument
40 Upon
41 Debt
42 Accomplish
43 Girl’s name
45 Medicine
47 Dentist (abbr.)
48 Obtained again
50 With facility
52 Landlord’s delight
53 To guzzle


VERTICAL

 1 Pliable
 2 Beverage
 3 Thus
 4 High temperature
 5 Vehicle
 6 Preposition
 7 Possessive article
 8 Better arranged
 9 Habit
10 Birth
11 Word
12 A tiller of the Soil
15 Youth
21 Evil
22 Beyond comprehension
23 Money
24 Strong medicine
26 Devoted lady
28 Whip
31 Procure
32 Wrap
33 Mediterranean island
34 Difficult of solution
35 Loud noise
37 A pointed tool
39 Inquisitive
44 Disposed of
45 Hard drinker
46 Reposed
47 Incline
49 Preposition
51 Therefore









PUZZLE NO. 47

CRANK HER UP

By Frank A. Ford


In spite of much black and a complicated design, which compels the use
of some unkeyed letters, this puzzle gets by with colors flying.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   |     | 3   | 4   |#####| 5   |     |     | 6   |#####| 7   | 8   |     | 9   | 10  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 11  |     |#####| 12  |     | 13  |     |#####|#####| 14  | 15  |     |     |#####| 16  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 17  |     |     |#####|#####| 18  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 19  | 20  |#####| 21  |     |     |     |     | 22  |     |     |     | 23  |#####| 24  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 25  |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####| 26  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 27  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 28  | 29  |     | 30  |     | 31  |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 32  | 33  |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 35  |     |     |#####| 36  |     |     | 37  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 38  |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####| 39  |     | 40  |     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |#####|#####|#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 41  | 42  | 43  |     |#####| 44  |     | 45  |#####|     |#####| 46  |     | 47  | 48  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 49  |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 50  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 51  |     |#####|     |#####| 52  | 53  |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####| 54  | 55  |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 56  |     |#####| 57  | 58  |     |     |     |     | 59  | 60  | 61  |     |#####| 62  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####|#####| 63  |     |     |#####|#####| 64  |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |#####|#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  | 66  |#####| 67  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 68  |     |     | 69  |#####| 70  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 71  |     |     |     |     |#####| 72  |     |     |     |#####| 73  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Species of bird
 5 Sacred bird
 7 Throws
11 Part of the verb “be”
12 Quick
14 Piece
16 Preposition
17 Spawn
18 A measure
19 Preposition
21 Overshadows
24 Allowing that
25 Sun-god
26 To mimic
27 Preposition
28 Share with
32 Groove
34 Son of Aaron
35 Beast of burden
36 Kingdom of Persia
38 Holy picture
39 To saturate
41 A medley
44 A priestly vestment
46 Rears up
49 Termination
50 Collection of units
51 Indef. article
52 Oriental sash
54 Personal pronoun
56 Exist
57 Sanctioned
62 Goddess of Earth
63 Allow
64 Tribe of Indians
65 Act
67 Help
68 Meager
70 Part of the verb “be”
71 To wipe out
72 Situation set apart
73 Species of elk


VERTICAL

 1 Character in Genesis
 2 Measure of type
 3 Connected with
 4 Species of plant
 5 Note of entry
 6 Small piece
 7 Conceal
 8 Above
 9 Note of scale
10 Support
13 French coin
15 Abodes for travelers
20 Deputy of Sultan
21 Resembling a sandflea
22 Hindu title
23 Can be drawn together
24 A small part
29 A musical note
30 Species of bird
31 To harden
33 Birthplace of Abraham
34 Besides
37 Wooden pegs
39 Unrighteousness
40 A limb
42 Smooth consonant
43 Enclosed
44 The highest point
45 Used in fishing
47 Personal pronoun
48 Narrow-minded person
51 Dwell
53 Posts for ships’ cables
55 Under strain
58 River in Germany
59 Beast of burden
60 Goddess of Mischief
61 Two or more together
66 Else
67 Conjunction
69 Denial
70 Part of the verb “be”









PUZZLE NO. 48

A VOCABULARY TESTER

By Irvan Neckerman


Mr. Neckerman is apparently never happy till he has filled his
construction with difficult words. This one is a real trial of
verbal strength.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |     | 6   |#####| 7   |     | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 13  |     |     |     |     |#####| 14  | 15  |     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 17  |     |     |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |#####| 19  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 20  |     |#####|     |#####| 21  |     |     |     | 22  |#####|     |#####| 23  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 24  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 25  |     |     | 26  |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 27  | 28  |     |     |#####| 29  | 30  |     | 31  |     |#####| 32  |     | 33  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 34  |     |     |#####| 35  |     |     |     |     |     | 36  |#####| 37  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 38  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####| 39  |     |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 40  |     |     |#####| 41  | 42  |     | 43  |     | 44  |     |#####| 45  |     | 46  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |     |     | 48  |#####| 49  |     |     |     |     |#####| 50  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 51  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 52  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 53  | 54  |#####|     |#####| 55  | 56  |     | 57  |     |#####|     |#####| 58  |     |
|     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 59  |     | 60  |     | 61  |#####| 62  |     |     |#####| 63  |     | 64  |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  |     |     |     |     |#####| 66  |     |     |#####| 67  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 68  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 69  |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 To reveal
 7 Scrutinizer
13 Dissimulation
14 To request
16 To despoil
17 American flycatcher
18 Cereal
19 Dwelling
20 Ridge of sand or gravel
21 Assault
23 Tone of musical scale
24 To opine
25 Amorous glance
27 So be it
29 Chosen
32 Feast of the nativity
34 Ribbed fabric
35 Hostile persons
37 To run wild
38 To cheat
39 Sly look
40 Twice
41 Uprightly
45 Bill
47 Passageway
49 Ascend
50 A mass
51 Dexterous
52 Silicate of magnesia
53 Alleged force of mesmerism
55 Nether world (myth)
58 Tone of musical scale
59 Shrinking
62 To cut
63 To brawl
65 To eat away
66 Superficial measure
67 Nest of bird of prey
68 Is contingent upon
69 Sorrows


VERTICAL

 1 Having two poles
 2 Strong resentments
 3 Asseverate
 4 Odd
 5 Caustic
 6 Merit
 7 Toboggan for the foot
 8 Part of circle
 9 Almost
10 To seize
11 Bad
12 Changed appellation
15 Method
21 Foreshowing
22 Carry
24 Witnessed
26 Well bred
28 Excellence
30 A bar
31 Cinerary urns
33 Fold in a garment
35 Increase
36 See
40 Illiberal
42 A hill or mound
43 Burnt material
44 Permits
46 Over and above
48 Sojourn
50 Deposit of sand or gravel
54 Ill-boding
56 Sunken fences
57 Wide mouthed pitcher
58 Long cut
60 A grimace
61 A haunt
63 To sink
64 Raw material









PUZZLE NO. 49

IN WORDS OF ONE SYLLABLE

By J. T. Delaney


Ever read a book in words of one syllable? This has no higher
percentage of polysyllabic words than that.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   |#####| 4   | 5   |     | 6   |#####| 7   | 8   | 9   |#####| 10  |     | 11  | 12  |#####| 13  | 14  |     | 15  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 16  |     |     |     |     |#####| 17  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 19  | 20  |     |     |#####| 21  |     | 22  |     |#####| 23  |     |     |#####| 24  | 25  |     |     |#####| 26  |     | 27  |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 28  |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 29  |     |     |     | 30  |#####|     |#####| 31  |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####|     |#####| 32  | 33  |     | 34  |     |#####|     |#####| 35  | 36  |     | 37  |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 38  |     | 39  |     | 40  |#####| 41  |     |     |     | 42  |#####| 43  |     |     |     |     |#####| 44  |     | 45  |     | 46  |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |     |     |#####| 48  | 49  |     |#####| 50  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 51  | 52  |     |#####| 53  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 54  |     |     |     |#####| 55  |     |     |     |#####| 56  |     |     | 57  |#####| 58  |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 59  | 60  |     |#####| 61  |     | 62  |     |#####| 63  |     | 64  |     |     |#####| 65  | 66  |     |     |#####| 67  | 68  |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 69  |     |     |     |     | 70  |#####| 71  |     |     |#####| 72  |     |     |     |     | 73  |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 74  |     | 75  |     |#####| 76  |     |     |     | 77  |#####|     |#####| 78  |     |     |     |     |#####| 79  | 80  |     | 81  |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 82  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 83  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 84  |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 85  |     |     |     |#####| 86  |     | 87  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 88  |     | 89  |     | 90  |#####| 91  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####| 92  | 93  |     |     |     |     |#####| 94  |     | 95  |#####| 96  |     |     |     | 97  |     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 98  |     | 99  |#####| 100 |     |     |     |#####| 101 |     |     |     | 102 |#####| 103 |     |     |     |#####| 104 |     | 105 |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 106 |     |     |     |#####| 107 | 108 |     |     |#####| 109 |     | 110 |     |#####| 111 |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 112 | 113 |     |#####| 114 |     | 115 |#####| 116 |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 117 |     |     |#####| 118 | 119 |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 120 |     |     | 121 |     |#####| 122 | 123 |     |     |     |#####| 124 |     |     | 125 |     |#####| 126 | 127 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####|     |#####|     |#####| 128 |     |     |     |     |#####| 129 |#####| 130 |     |     |     | 131 |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
|#####|     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 132 |     | 133 |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 134 | 135 |     | 136 |     |#####|     |#####| 137 |     |     | 138 |     | 139 |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 140 |     |     |     |#####| 141 | 142 |     | 143 |#####| 144 |     |     |#####| 145 |     | 146 |     |#####| 147 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 148 |     |     |     |     |#####| 149 |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 150 |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 151 |     |     |     |#####| 152 |     |     |     |#####| 153 |     |     |#####| 154 |     |     |     |#####| 155 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


HORIZONTAL

 1 Chart
 4 Eject
 7 Undermine
10 Expletive
13 Yield
16 Covered entrance
17 Search thoroughly
18 Cunning
19 Sharpen
21 Breezy
23 Suitable
24 Black
26 Title
28 Leguminous plant
29 Velocity
31 Enclosure
32 Same
35 Wash lightly
38 Apparent
41 Agitate
43 Nonsense
44 Caustic
47 Church bench
48 Kind of fish
50 Boastful behavior
51 Viper
53 Chopping tool
54 Kind of cheese
55 Suitable
56 Repulsive
58 Petty quarrel
59 Title
61 Coin
63 Dipper
65 Heroic poem
67 Suitable
69 Soft hat
71 Happened
72 Cipher
74 Lively (archaic)
76 Swelling due to fluid
78 Harass
79 Forage plant
82 Lively
83 Censure
84 Engraving tool
85 French military cap
86 Conclude
88 Inferior
91 Dispatch
92 Husband or wife
94 Logging boot
96 Excise
98 Caustic
100 Russian
101 Beautiful girl
103 Dam
104 Assembled
106 Small bottle
107 Instigate
109 Burden
111 Measure
112 Personal pronoun
114 Beverage
116 Regular
117 Measurement of type (PL)
118 Twitching
120 From this place
122 Swagger
124 A Biblical character
126 Exhausted
128 Fascinate
130 Pertaining to a division of Greeks
132 Incarnation
134 Muscular strength
137 Storeroom for foods
140 City in Nevada
141 Black
144 Corroded
145 Take principal meal
147 Carry
148 Unit of weight
149 Obliquely
150 Waste
151 Depression
152 Seaweed
153 Antiquity
154 Herb
155 Onion-like plant


VERTICAL

 1 Ratchet check
 2 Expand
 3 Waver
 4 Burn with liquid
 5 Greek letter
 6 Crooked
 7 Sudden break
 8 Kind of poplar
 9 Head
10 Supplement
11 Past
12 Dullard
13 Clergyman
14 Raise up
15 Head
20 Raise up
22 Compassion
25 Front hair
27 Numerical base
29 Yellowish brown
30 Menial servant
33 Cold
34 Pipe
36 Object of devotion
37 Body of water
38 Composition
39 Wide-mouthed jug
40 Barter
42 Native
43 Defect
44 Affected
45 Large quantity
46 Indentation
49 Chemical of ammonia type
52 Kind of cigar
55 Bare
57 Unit of time
60 Rhetorical decoration
62 Standard
64 Daily
66 Intent
68 Encroach
69 Genus of cats
70 Divert
72 Lowest point
73 Duty
74 Tibetan ox
75 Tear
77 Mimic
78 Personal pronoun
80 Unit of surface
81 Conclude
86 Slur (music)
87 Bones
89 Intelligence
90 Rule
93 Babble
94 For trial (as, a jury)
95 Cleft hoof (dial.)
97 Dense
98 Luxuriant
99 Regular
101 Stupefy
102 Cause destruction
104 Measure
105 Discrimination
108 Halo
110 Boss of a shield
113 Handle of ax
115 Common tree
117 Biblical character
119 Entrance
121 Circuit breaker
123 Duty
125 Against
127 Entrance
128 Muscular spasm
129 Mortal
131 Split
132 Dry
133 Soon
135 Search thoroughly
136 Proceed on
138 Scant portion
139 Heed
142 Born
143 Yelp
145 Condensed moisture
146 Negative particle









PUZZLE NO. 50

OF SOMEWHAT ORIENTAL FLAVOR

By Gregorian


An excellent construction, admirable chiefly for the entire absence
of two-letter words and for the central interlock. As for the
words—go ahead and see for yourself.


+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 1   |     | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |#####| 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   |     |#####| 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  |     | 14  |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 15  |     |     |     | 16  |#####| 17  |     |     |#####| 18  |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 19  | 20  |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 21  |     |     |#####| 22  |     |     |     |     | 23  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 24  |     |     |#####|     |#####| 25  | 26  |     |#####| 27  | 28  |     |#####|     |#####| 29  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 30  |     |     |     |#####| 31  |     |     |     | 32  |     |     |     | 33  |#####| 34  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 35  |     |     |#####| 36  |     |     |     |#####|     |#####| 37  |     |     | 38  |#####| 39  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 40  |     | 41  |     |     |#####| 42  | 43  |     | 44  |     |#####| 45  |     | 46  |     |     |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 47  |#####|#####| 48  |     |     | 49  |#####| 50  |     |     |#####| 51  |     |     |     |#####|#####| 52  |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 53  | 54  | 55  |     |     |#####| 56  | 57  |     |     |     | 58  |     |#####| 59  |     | 60  | 61  |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 62  |     |     |#####| 63  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 64  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 65  |     |     | 66  |     |#####| 67  |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 68  | 69  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####|#####| 70  |     | 71  |     |#####| 72  |     |     |#####| 73  | 74  |     |     |#####|#####|     |
|     |#####|#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|#####| 75  | 76  |     |     |     |#####| 77  |     |     |     | 78  |#####| 79  |     |     | 80  | 81  |#####|
|#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 82  |     |     |#####| 83  |     | 84  |     |#####|     |#####| 85  | 86  |     |     |#####| 87  |     | 88  |
|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 89  |     |     |     |#####| 90  |     |     | 91  |     | 92  |     |     |     |#####| 93  |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 94  |     |     |#####| 95  |#####| 96  |     |     |#####| 97  |     |     |#####| 98  |#####| 99  |     |     |
|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |#####|     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 100 |     |     | 101 |     | 102 |     |#####| 103 | 104 |     |#####| 105 | 106 |     | 107 |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |#####| 108 |     |     |     |     |#####| 109 |     |     |#####| 110 |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
|     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
| 111 |     |     |     |     |     |#####| 112 |     |     |     |     |#####| 113 |     |     |     |     |     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |#####|     |     |     |     |     |     |
+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+



HORIZONTAL

 1 Pertaining to an Oceanic race
 6 Mohammedanism
10 A modern form of assembly
15 Prevent
17 Cymbals used by Hindu dancers
18 Mountain Lions
19 Thoroughfares
21 Ovum
22 Put back
24 Child
25 Beverage
27 Past
29 Toss
30 Chemical radical
31 Shoed
34 Cake
35 Illumined
36 Additions
37 Poet
39 X
40 South American Animal
42 Worried
45 Hoarder
48 Unfasten
50 Be ill
51 Preposition
53 Frosting
56 Dispraise
59 Undo
62 Boy
63 City in Chile
64 Heroine in Spencer
65 Seize
67 Proceed
68 Ties
70 Place
72 Run (Scotch)
73 Labor
75 Fright
77 Defeats
79 Requested
82 Beverage
83 Therefore
85 Civil offense
87 Vigor
89 Fast
90 Pedal prints
93 Opera singer
94 Piece
96 Metallic rock
97 Due
99 Negative
100 Angered
103 Present
105 Survivors
108 Curtain
109 Star
110 Scient
111 One who seasons
112 Concise
113 Vomiting


VERTICAL

 1 Pertaining to mail
 2 Shakespearian character
 3 Utilize
 4 Egyptian god
 5 Negative
 7 Oblique
 8 Linger
 9 Sea Life
10 Beg
11 Siberian city
12 A container
13 Seclude
14 Pertaining to a Grecian city
16 Chant
18 Preface
20 Understood
23 Clother
26 Italian woman’s
28 Grotto name
31 Mathematical term
32 Asceticisms
33 Condemn
36 Chinese city
38 Follower of ceremony
41 Word play
43 Trumpet call
44 Graceful
46 Descendant
47 Lowest point in a ship
49 Musical composition
51 Attack
52 Animal
54 Vehicle
55 Mountain in Greece
57 Uncle (S. Africa)
58 Entangle
60 Wine cask
61 Dark fluid
66 Spring
69 Tribe
71 Slave
74 Paddles
75 Killed
76 Middle
77 Lout
78 Cooked mixture
80 Shows
81 Golf Term
82 Head nun
84 Merchandise
86 Musical form
88 Chateaus
91 Strained
92 Cities
95 Giant
98 Hit
101 Skill
102 Bodily organ
104 Pronoun
106 Female sheep
107 Anger








*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CROSS WORD PUZZLE
BOOK ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
